3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-190: Integer Overflow or W raparound
Weakness ID: 190
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a calculation that can produce an integer overflow or wraparound, when the logic assumes that the resulting
value will always be larger than the original value. This can introduce other weaknesses when the calculation is used for resource
management or execution control.
 Extended Description
An integer overflow or wraparound occurs when an integer value is incremented to a value that is too large to store in the associated
representation. When this occurs, the value may wrap to become a very small or negative number . While this may be intended
behavior in circumstances that rely on wrapping, it can have security consequences if the wrap is unexpected. This is especially the
case if the integer overflow can be triggered using user-supplied inputs. This becomes security-critical when the result is used to
control looping, make a security decision, or determine the of fset or size in behaviors such as memory allocation, copying,
concatenation, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
ParentOf 680 Integer Overflow to Buf fer Overflow
PeerOf 128 Wrap-around Error
PeerOf 1339 Insuf ficient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory); DoS: Instability
This weakness will generally lead to undefined behavior and therefore crashes. In the case of
overflows involving loop index variables, the likelihood of infinite loops is also high.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If the value in question is important to data (as opposed to flow), simple data corruption has
occurred. Also, if the wrap around results in other conditions such as buf fer overflows, further
memory corruption may occur .
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
This weakness can sometimes trigger buf fer overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code.
This is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 2/7
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following image processing code allocates a table for images.
This code intends to allocate a table of size num\_imgs, however as num\_imgs grows large, the calculation determining the size of the
list will eventually overflow ( CWE-190 ). This will result in a very small list to be allocated instead. If the subsequent code operates on
the list as if it were num\_imgs long, it may result in many types of out-of-bounds problems ( CWE-119 ).
Example 2
The following code excerpt from OpenSSH 3.3 demonstrates a classic case of integer overflow:
If nresp has the value 1073741824 and sizeof(char\*) has its typical value of 4, then the result of the operation nresp\*sizeof(char\*)
overflows, and the argument to xmalloc() will be 0. Most malloc() implementations will happily allocate a 0-byte buf fer, causing the
subsequent loop iterations to overflow the heap buf fer response.
Example 3
Integer overflows can be complicated and dif ficult to detect. The following example is an attempt to show how an integer overflow may
lead to undefined looping behavior:
In the above case, it is entirely possible that bytesRec may overflow , continuously creating a lower number than MAXGET and also
overwriting the first MAXGET -1 bytes of buf.
Example 4
In this example the method determineFirstQuarterRevenue is used to determine the first quarter revenue for an accounting/business
application. The method retrieves the monthly sales totals for the first three months of the year , calculates the first quarter sales totals
from the monthly sales totals, calculates the first quarter revenue based on the first quarter sales, and finally saves the first quarter
revenue results to the database.(bad code) Example Language: C 
img\_t table\_ptr; /\*struct containing img data, 10kB each\*/
int num\_imgs;
...
num\_imgs = get\_num\_imgs();
table\_ptr = (img\_t\*)malloc(sizeof(img\_t)\*num\_imgs);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
nresp = packet\_get\_int();
if (nresp > 0) {
response = xmalloc(nresp\*sizeof(char\*));
for (i = 0; i < nresp; i++) response[i] = packet\_get\_string(NULL);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
short int bytesRec = 0;
char buf[SOMEBIGNUM];
while(bytesRec < MAXGET) {
bytesRec += getFromInput(buf+bytesRec);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define JAN 1
#define FEB 2
#define MAR 3
short getMonthlySales(int month) {...}
float calculateRevenueForQuarter(short quarterSold) {...}
int determineFirstQuarterRevenue() {
// Variable for sales revenue for the quarter
float quarterRevenue = 0.0f;
short JanSold = getMonthlySales(JAN); /\* Get sales in January \*/
short FebSold = getMonthlySales(FEB); /\* Get sales in February \*/
short MarSold = getMonthlySales(MAR); /\* Get sales in March \*/
// Calculate quarterly total
short quarterSold = JanSold + FebSold + MarSold;3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 3/7However , in this example the primitive type short int is used for both the monthly and the quarterly sales variables. In C the short int
primitive type has a maximum value of 32768. This creates a potential integer overflow if the value for the three monthly sales adds
up to more than the maximum value for the short int primitive type. An integer overflow can lead to data corruption, unexpected
behavior , infinite loops and system crashes. To correct the situation the appropriate primitive type should be used, as in the example
below , and/or provide some validation mechanism to ensure that the maximum value for the primitive type is not exceeded.
Note that an integer overflow could also occur if the quarterSold variable has a primitive type long but the method
calculateRevenueForQuarter has a parameter of type short.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-43537 Chain: in a web browser , an unsigned 64-bit integer is forcibly cast to a 32-bit integer ( CWE-681 ) and
potentially leading to an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ). If an integer overflow occurs, this can cause heap
memory corruption ( CWE-122 )
CVE-2022-21668 Chain: Python library does not limit the resources used to process images that specify a very large
number of bands ( CWE-1284 ), leading to excessive memory consumption ( CWE-789 ) or an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ).
CVE-2022-0545 Chain: 3D renderer has an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) leading to write-what-where condition ( CWE-
123) using a crafted image.
CVE-2021-30860 Chain: improper input validation ( CWE-20 ) leads to integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) in mobile OS, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-30663 Chain: improper input validation ( CWE-20 ) leads to integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) in mobile OS, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2018-10887 Chain: unexpected sign extension ( CWE-194 ) leads to integer overflow ( CWE-190 ), causing an out-of-
bounds read ( CWE-125 )
CVE-2019-1010006 Chain: compiler optimization ( CWE-733 ) removes or modifies code used to detect integer overflow
(CWE-190 ), allowing out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 ).
CVE-2010-1866 Chain: integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) causes a negative signed value, which later bypasses a maximum-
only check ( CWE-839 ), leading to heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
CVE-2010-2753 Chain: integer overflow leads to use-after-free
CVE-2005-1513 Chain: integer overflow in securely-coded mail program leads to buf fer overflow . In 2005, this was
regarded as unrealistic to exploit, but in 2020, it was rediscovered to be easier to exploit due to
evolutions of the technology .
CVE-2002-0391 Integer overflow via a large number of arguments.
CVE-2002-0639 Integer overflow in OpenSSH as listed in the demonstrative examples.
CVE-2005-1141 Image with large width and height leads to integer overflow .
CVE-2005-0102 Length value of -1 leads to allocation of 0 bytes and resultant heap overflow .
CVE-2004-2013 Length value of -1 leads to allocation of 0 bytes and resultant heap overflow .
CVE-2017-1000121 chain: unchecked message size metadata allows integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) leading to buf fer
overflow ( CWE-119 ).
CVE-2013-1591 Chain: an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) in the image size calculation causes an infinite loop ( CWE-835 )
which sequentially allocates buf fers without limits ( CWE-1325 ) until the stack is full.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Ensure that all protocols are strictly defined, such that all out-of-bounds behavior can be identified simply , and require strict
conformance to the protocol.
Phase: Requirements// Calculate the total revenue for the quarter
quarterRevenue = calculateRevenueForQuarter(quarterSold);
saveFirstQuarterRevenue(quarterRevenue);
return 0;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
float calculateRevenueForQuarter(long quarterSold) {...}
int determineFirstQuarterRevenue() {
...
// Calculate quarterly total
long quarterSold = JanSold + FebSold + MarSold;
// Calculate the total revenue for the quarter
quarterRevenue = calculateRevenueForQuarter(quarterSold);
...
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 4/7Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
If possible, choose a language or compiler that performs automatic bounds checking.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Use libraries or frameworks that make it easier to handle numbers without unexpected consequences.
Examples include safe integer handling packages such as SafeInt (C++) or IntegerLib (C or C++). [ REF-106 ]
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Perform input validation on any numeric input by ensuring that it is within the expected range. Enforce that the input meets both
the minimum and maximum requirements for the expected range.
Use unsigned integers where possible. This makes it easier to perform validation for integer overflows. When signed integers
are required, ensure that the range check includes minimum values as well as maximum values.
Phase: Implementation
Understand the programming language's underlying representation and how it interacts with numeric calculation ( CWE-681 ).
Pay close attention to byte size discrepancies, precision, signed/unsigned distinctions, truncation, conversion and casting
between types, "not-a-number" calculations, and how the language handles numbers that are too large or too small for its
underlying representation. [ REF-7 ]
Also be careful to account for 32-bit, 64-bit, and other potential dif ferences that may af fect the numeric representation.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Examine compiler warnings closely and eliminate problems with potential security implications, such as signed / unsigned
mismatch in memory operations, or use of uninitialized variables. Even if the weakness is rarely exploitable, a single failure may
lead to the compromise of the entire system.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Effectiveness: High
Black Box
Sometimes, evidence of this weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using
large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's
operation may slow down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Without visibility into the code, black box methods may not be able to suf ficiently distinguish this weakness from others,
requiring follow-up manual methods to diagnose the underlying problem.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of allocation calculations. This can be useful for
detecting overflow conditions ( CWE-190 ) or similar weaknesses that might have serious security impacts on the program.
Effectiveness: High
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 5/7Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Number Processing
Memory Management
Counters
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1137 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 03. Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 6/7Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Integer overflows can be primary to buf fer overflows.
Terminology
"Integer overflow" is sometimes used to cover several types of errors, including signedness errors, or buf fer overflows that involve
manipulation of integer data types instead of characters. Part of the confusion results from the fact that 0xf fffffff is -1 in a signed
context. Other confusion also arises because of the role that integer overflows have in chains.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Integer overflow (wrap or wraparound)
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Integer Overflow
CLASP Integer overflow
CER T C Secure Coding INT18-C CWE More
AbstractEvaluate integer expressions in a larger size before
comparing or assigning to that size
CER T C Secure Coding INT30-C CWE More
AbstractEnsure that unsigned integer operations do not wrap
CER T C Secure Coding INT32-C Imprecise Ensure that operations on signed integers do not result in
overflow
CER T C Secure Coding INT35-C Evaluate integer expressions in a larger size before
comparing or assigning to that size
CER T C Secure Coding MEM07-C CWE More
AbstractEnsure that the arguments to calloc(), when multiplied, do not
wrap
CER T C Secure Coding MEM35-C Allocate suf ficient memory for an object
WASC 3 Integer Overflows
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SR-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-92 Forced Integer Overflow
 References
[REF-145] Yves Younan. "An overview of common programming security vulnerabilities and possible solutions". Student thesis
section 5.4.3. 2003-08. < http://fort-knox.org/thesis.pdf >.
[REF-146] blexim. "Basic Integer Overflows". Phrack - Issue 60, Chapter 10. < http://www .phrack.org/issues.html?
issue=60&id=10#article >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 20, "Integer Overflows" Page 620. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 7: Integer Overflows."
Page 119. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-106] David LeBlanc and Niels Dekker . "SafeInt". < http://safeint.codeplex.com/ >.
[REF-150] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 17 - Integer Overflow Or W raparound". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-03-18. < http://software-security .sans.org/blog/2010/03/18/top-25-series-rank-17-integer-overflow-or-wraparound >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Signed Integer
Boundaries", Page 220. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-190: Integer Overﬂow or Wraparound (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/190.html 7/7
 Submissions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names