3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1291: Public Key Re-Use for Signing both Debug and Production Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1291.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1291: Public Key Re-Use for Signing both Debug and Production Code
Weakness ID: 1291
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The same public key is used for signing both debug and production code.
 Extended Description
A common usage of public-key cryptography is to verify the integrity and authenticity of another entity (for example a firmware binary).
If a company wants to ensure that its firmware runs only on its own hardware, before the firmware runs, an encrypted hash of the
firmware image will be decrypted with the public key and then verified against the now-computed hash of the firmware image. This
means that the public key forms the root of trust, which necessitates that the public key itself must be protected and used properly .
During the development phase, debug firmware enables many hardware debug hooks, debug modes, and debug messages for
testing. Those debug facilities provide significant, additional views about the firmware's capability and, in some cases, additional
capability into the chip or SoC. If compromised, these capabilities could be exploited by an attacker to take full control of the system.
Once the product exits the manufacturing stage and enters production, it is good practice to use a dif ferent public key . Debug
firmware images are known to leak. With the debug key being reused as the production key , the debug image will also work on the
production image. Thus, it will open all the internal, debug capabilities to the attacker .
If a dif ferent public key is used for the production image, even if the attacker gains access to the debug firmware image, they will not
be able to run it on a production machine. Thus, damage will be limited to the intellectual property leakage resulting from the debug
image.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
PeerOf 321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
Authentication
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume
Identity; Varies by ContextHighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1291: Public Key Re-Use for Signing both Debug and Production Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1291.html 2/2Non-Repudiation
Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example illustrates the danger of using the same public key for debug and production.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use dif ferent keys for Production and Debug
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Compare the debug key with the production key to make sure that they are not the same.
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Compare the debug key with the production key to make sure that they are not the same.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-26
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Parbati Kumar Manna, Hareesh Khattri, Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
Suppose the product design requires frugality of silicon real estate. Assume that originally the architecture allows just enough storage for
two 2048-bit RSA keys in the fuse: one to be used for debug and the other for production. However, in the meantime, a business decision
is taken to make the security future-proof beyond 2030, which means the architecture needs to use the NIST-recommended 3072-bit keys
instead of the originally-planned 2048-bit keys. This means that, at most, one key can be fully stored in the fuses, not two. So the product
design team decides to use the same public key for debug and production.
(informative) Example Language: Other 
Increase the storage so that two different keys of the required size can be stored.