3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-313: Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/313.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-313: Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk
Weakness ID: 313
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in cleartext in a file, or on disk.
 Extended Description
The sensitive information could be read by attackers with access to the file, or with physical or administrator access to the raw disk.
Even if the information is encoded in a way that is not human-readable, certain techniques could determine which encoding is being
used, then decode the information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...


3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-313: Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/313.html 2/2Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1481 Cleartext credentials in world-readable file.
CVE-2005-1828 Password in cleartext in config file.
CVE-2005-2209 Password in cleartext in config file.
CVE-2002-1696 Decrypted copy of a message written to disk given a combination of options and when user replies to
an encrypted message.
CVE-2004-2397 Cleartext storage of private key and passphrase in log file when user imports the key .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Different people use "cleartext" and "plaintext" to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However , within cryptography , these
have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-
encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-
readable (such as base64 encoding).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Storage in File or on Disk
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names

...