3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-12: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Missing Custom Error Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/12.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-12: ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Missing Custom Error Page
Weakness ID: 12
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An ASP .NET application must enable custom error pages in order to prevent attackers from mining information from the framework's
built-in responses.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 756 Missing Custom Error Page
 Background Details
The mode attribute of the  tag defines whether custom or default error pages are used.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
ASP.NET (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Default error pages gives detailed information about the error that occurred, and should not be used
in production environments. Attackers can leverage the additional information provided by a default
error page to mount attacks targeted on the framework, database, or other resources used by the
application.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The mode attribute of the  tag in the W eb.config file defines whether custom or default error pages are used.
In the following insecure ASP.NET application setting, custom error message mode is turned of f. An ASP.NET error message with
detailed stack trace and platform versions will be returned.
A more secure setting is to set the custom error message mode for remote users only . No defaultRedirect error page is specified. The
local user on the web server will see a detailed stack trace. For remote users, an ASP.NET error message with the server customError
configuration setting and the platform version will be returned.
Another secure option is to set the mode attribute of the  tag to use a custom page as follows:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 

(good code) Example Language: ASP.NET 

(good code) Example Language: ASP.NET 3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-12: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Missing Custom Error Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/12.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Handle exceptions appropriately in source code. ASP .NET applications should be configured to use custom error pages instead
of the framework default page.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not attempt to process an error or attempt to mask it.
Phase: Implementation
Verify return values are correct and do not supply sensitive information about the system.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Missing Custom Error Handling
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-65] M. Howard, D. LeBlanc and J. V iega. "19 Deadly Sins of Software Security". McGraw-Hill/Osborne. 2005-07-26.
[REF-66] OW ASP, Fortify Software. "ASP .NET Misconfiguration: Missing Custom Error Handling".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
