3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1296: Incorrect Chaining or Granularity of Debug Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1296.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1296: Incorrect Chaining or Granularity of Debug Components
Weakness ID: 1296
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's debug components contain incorrect chaining or granularity of debug components.
 Extended Description
For debugging and troubleshooting a chip, several hardware design elements are often implemented, including:
Various Test Access Ports (T APs) allow boundary scan commands to be executed.
For scanning the internal components of a chip, there are scan cells that allow the chip to be used as a "stimulus and
response" mechanism.
Chipmakers might create custom methods to observe the internal components of their chips by placing various tracing hubs
within their chip and creating hierarchical or interconnected structures among those hubs.
Logic errors during design or synthesis could misconfigure the interconnection of the debug components, which could allow
unintended access permissions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
Authentication
Authorization
Availability
AccountabilityTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; Modify Memory; Modify Files or Directories
Depending on the access to debug component(s) erroneously granted, an attacker could use the
debug component to gain additional understanding about the system to further an attack and/or
execute other commands. This could compromise any security property , including the ones listed
above.MediumAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1296: Incorrect Chaining or Granularity of Debug Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1296.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example shows how an attacker can take advantage of incorrect chaining or missing granularity of debug components.
In a System-on-Chip (SoC), the user might be able to access the SoC-level TAP with a certain level of authorization. However , this
access should not also grant access to all of the internal TAPs (e.g., Core). Separately , if any of the internal TAPs is also stitched to
the TAP chain when it should not be because of a logic error , then an attacker can access the internal TAPs as well and execute
commands there.
As a related example, suppose there is a hierarchy of TAPs (T AP\_A is connected to TAP\_B and TAP\_C, then TAP\_B is connected to
TAP\_D and TAP\_E, then TAP\_C is connected to TAP\_F and TAP\_G, etc.). Architecture mandates that the user have one set of
credentials for just accessing TAP\_A, another set of credentials for accessing TAP\_B and TAP\_C, etc. However , if, during
implementation, the designer mistakenly implements a daisy-chained TAP where all the TAPs are connected in a single TAP chain
without the hierarchical structure, the correct granularity of debug components is not implemented and the attacker can gain
unauthorized access.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-18347 Incorrect access control in RDP Level 1 on STMicroelectronics STM32F0 series devices allows
physically present attackers to extract the device's protected firmware via a special sequence of Serial
Wire Debug (SWD) commands because there is a race condition between full initialization of the SWD
interface and the setup of flash protection.
CVE-2020-1791 There is an improper authorization vulnerability in several smartphones. The system has a logic-
judging error , and, under certain scenarios, a successful exploit could allow the attacker to switch to
third desktop after a series of operations in ADB mode. (V ulnerability ID: HWPSIR T-2019-10114).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that debug components are properly chained and their granularity is maintained at dif ferent authentication levels.
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Appropriate Post-Si tests should be carried out at various authorization levels to ensure that debug components are properly
chained and accessible only to users with appropriate credentials.
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Appropriate Post-Si tests should be carried out at various authorization levels to ensure that debug components are properly
chained and accessible only to users with appropriate credentials.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
CAPEC-702 Exploiting Incorrect Chaining or Granularity of Hardware Debug Components
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1296: Incorrect Chaining or Granularity of Debug Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1296.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-31
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications