3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-833: Deadlock (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/833.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-833: Deadlock
Weakness ID: 833
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains multiple threads or executable segments that are waiting for each other to release a necessary lock, resulting in
deadlock.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 411 Resource Locking Problems
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Each thread of execution will "hang" and prevent tasks from completing. In some cases, CPU
consumption may occur if a lock check occurs in a tight loop.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1476 A bug in some Intel Pentium processors allow DoS (hang) via an invalid "CMPXCHG8B" instruction,
causing a deadlock
CVE-2009-2857 OS deadlock
CVE-2009-1961 OS deadlock involving 3 separate functions
CVE-2009-2699 deadlock in library
CVE-2009-4272 deadlock triggered by packets that force collisions in a routing table
CVE-2002-1850 read/write deadlock between web server and script
CVE-2004-0174 web server deadlock involving multiple listening connections
CVE-2009-1388 multiple simultaneous calls to the same function trigger deadlock.
CVE-2006-5158 chain: other weakness leads to NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ) or deadlock ( CWE-833 ).
CVE-2006-4342 deadlock when an operation is performed on a resource while it is being removed.
CVE-2006-2374 Deadlock in device driver triggered by using file handle of a related device.
CVE-2006-2275 Deadlock when large number of small messages cannot be processed quickly enough.
CVE-2005-3847 OS kernel has deadlock triggered by a signal during a core dump.
CVE-2005-3106 Race condition leads to deadlock.
CVE-2005-2456 Chain: array index error ( CWE-129 ) leads to deadlock ( CWE-833 )
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 853 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 10 - Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-833: Deadlock (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/833.html 2/2This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)LCK08-J Ensure actively held locks are released on exceptional conditions
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-25 Forced Deadlock
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 13,
"Synchronization Problems", section "Starvation and Deadlocks", Page 760. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-783] Robert C. Seacord. "Secure Coding in C and C++". Chapter 7, "Concurrency", section "Mutual Exclusion and
Deadlock", Page 248. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-12-12
(CWE 1.11, 2010-12-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications