3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-481: Assigning instead of Comparing (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/481.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-481: Assigning instead of Comparing
Weakness ID: 481
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses an operator for assignment when the intention was to perform a comparison.
 Extended Description
In many languages the compare statement is very close in appearance to the assignment statement and are often confused. This bug
is generally the result of a typo and usually causes obvious problems with program execution. If the comparison is in an if statement,
the if statement will usually evaluate the value of the right-hand side of the predicate.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 480 Use of Incorrect Operator
CanPrecede 697 Incorrect Comparison
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following C/C++ and C# examples attempt to validate an int input parameter against the integer value 100.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int isValid(int value) {
if (value=100) {
printf("Value is valid\n");
return(1);
}
printf("Value is not valid\n");
return(0);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
bool isValid(int value) {
if (value=100) {
C lWitLi("Vlilid")3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-481: Assigning instead of Comparing (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/481.html 2/4However , the expression to be evaluated in the if statement uses the assignment operator "=" rather than the comparison operator
"==". The result of using the assignment operator instead of the comparison operator causes the int variable to be reassigned locally
and the expression in the if statement will always evaluate to the value on the right hand side of the expression. This will result in the
input value not being properly validated, which can cause unexpected results.
Example 2
In this example, we show how assigning instead of comparing can impact code when values are being passed by reference instead of
by value. Consider a scenario in which a string is being processed from user input. Assume the string has already been formatted
such that dif ferent user inputs are concatenated with the colon character . When the processString function is called, the test for the
colon character will result in an insertion of the colon character instead, adding new input separators. Since the string was passed by
reference, the data sentinels will be inserted in the original string ( CWE-464 ), and further processing of the inputs will be altered,
possibly malformed..
Example 3
The following Java example attempts to perform some processing based on the boolean value of the input parameter . However , the
expression to be evaluated in the if statement uses the assignment operator "=" rather than the comparison operator "==". As with the
previous examples, the variable will be reassigned locally and the expression in the if statement will evaluate to true and unintended
processing may occur .
While most Java compilers will catch the use of an assignment operator when a comparison operator is required, for boolean
variables in Java the use of the assignment operator within an expression is allowed. If possible, try to avoid using comparison
operators on boolean variables in java. Instead, let the values of the variables stand for themselves, as in the following code.
Alternatively , to test for false, just use the boolean NOT operator .Console.WriteLine("Value is valid.");
return true;
}
Console.WriteLine("Value is not valid.");
return false;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void processString (char \*str) {
int i;
for(i=0; i.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ypos", Page
289. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
System.out.println("Not Valid, do not perform processing");
return;
}
System.out.println("Performing processing");
doSomethingImportant();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void called(int foo){
if (foo=1) printf("foo\n");
}
int main() {
called(2);
return 0;
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-481: Assigning instead of Comparing (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/481.html 4/4
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications