3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-1173: Improper Use of Validation Framework (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1173.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1173: Improper Use of V alidation Framework
Weakness ID: 1173
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not use, or incorrectly uses, an input validation framework that is provided by the source language or an
independent library .
 Extended Description
Many modern coding languages provide developers with input validation frameworks to make the task of input validation easier and
less error-prone. These frameworks will automatically check all input against specified criteria and direct execution to error handlers
when invalid input is received. The improper use (i.e., an incorrect implementation or missing altogether) of these frameworks is not
directly exploitable, but can lead to an exploitable condition if proper input validation is not performed later in the product. Not using
provided input validation frameworks can also hurt the maintainability of code as future developers may not recognize the
downstream input validation being used in the place of the validation framework.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 20 Improper Input V alidation
ParentOf 102 Struts: Duplicate V alidation Forms
ParentOf 105 Struts: Form Field Without V alidator
ParentOf 106 Struts: Plug-in Framework not in Use
ParentOf 108 Struts: Unvalidated Action Form
ParentOf 109 Struts: V alidator Turned Of f
ParentOf 554 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Not Using Input V alidation Framework
ParentOf 1174 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Improper Model V alidation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness may occur when software designers choose to not leverage input validation frameworks
provided by the source language.
Implementation This weakness may occur when developers do not correctly use a provided input validation framework.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
Unchecked input leads to cross-site scripting, process control, and SQL injection vulnerabilities, among
others.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Properly use provided input validation frameworks.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-1173: Improper Use of Validation Framework (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1173.html 2/2Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Some instances of improper input validation can be detected using automated static analysis.
A static analysis tool might allow the user to specify which application-specific methods or functions perform input validation; the
tool might also have built-in knowledge of validation frameworks such as Struts. The tool may then suppress or de-prioritize any
associated warnings. This allows the analyst to focus on areas of the software in which input validation does not appear to be
present.
Except in the cases described in the previous paragraph, automated static analysis might not be able to recognize when proper
input validation is being performed, leading to false positives - i.e., warnings that do not have any security consequences or
require any code changes.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-12-21
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
