3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1317: Improper Access Control in Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1317.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1317: Improper Access Control in Fabric Bridge
Weakness ID: 1317
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a fabric bridge for transactions between two Intellectual Property (IP) blocks, but the bridge does not properly
perform the expected privilege, identity , or other access control checks between those IP blocks.
 Extended Description
In hardware designs, dif ferent IP blocks are connected through interconnect-bus fabrics (e.g. AHB and OCP). Within a System on
Chip (SoC), the IP block subsystems could be using dif ferent bus protocols. In such a case, the IP blocks are then linked to the
central bus (and to other IP blocks) through a fabric bridge. Bridges are used as bus-interconnect-routing modules that link dif ferent
protocols or separate, dif ferent segments of the overall SoC interconnect.
For overall system security , it is important that the access-control privileges associated with any fabric transaction are consistently
maintained and applied, even when they are routed or translated by a fabric bridge. A bridge that is connected to a fabric without
security features forwards transactions to the slave without checking the privilege level of the master and results in a weakness in
SoC access-control security . The same weakness occurs if a bridge does not check the hardware identity of the transaction received
from the slave interface of the bridge.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Memory; Modify MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example is from CVE-2019-6260 [ REF-1138 ]. The iLPC2AHB bridge connects a CPU (with multiple, privilege levels, such as
user, super user , debug, etc.) over AHB interface to an LPC bus. Several peripherals are connected to the LPC bus. The bridge isAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1317: Improper Access Control in Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1317.html 2/4expected to check the privilege level of the transactions initiated in the core before forwarding them to the peripherals on the LPC bus.
The bridge does not implement the checks and allows reads and writes from all privilege levels.
To address this, designers should implement hardware-based checks that are either hardcoded to block untrusted agents from
accessing secure peripherals or implement firmware flows that configure the bridge to block untrusted agents from making arbitrary
reads or writes.
Example 2
The example code below is taken from the AES and core local interrupt (CLINT) peripherals of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton
SoC. The access to all the peripherals for a given privilege level of the processor is controlled by an access control module in the
SoC. This ensures that malicious users with insuf ficient privileges do not get access to sensitive data, such as the AES keys used by
the operating system to encrypt and decrypt information. The security of the entire system will be compromised if the access controls
are incorrectly enforced. The access controls are enforced through the interconnect-bus fabrics, where access requests with
insuf ficient access control permissions will be rejected.
The previous code snippet [ REF-1382 ] illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of access control for the CLINT
peripheral (see module clint). It also shows a correct implementation of access control for the AES peripheral (see module
aes0\_wrapper) [ REF-1381 ]. An enable signal (en\_o) from the fabric's AXI interface (present in both modules) is used to determine if
an access request is made to the peripheral. In the case of the AES peripheral, this en\_o signal is first received in a temporary signal
en\_acct. Then, the access request is enabled (by asserting the en signal) only if the request has suf ficient access permissions (i.e.,
acct\_ctrl\_i signal should be enabled). However , in the case of the CLINT peripheral, the enable signal, en\_o, from the AXI interface, is
directly used to enable accesses. As a result, users with insuf ficient access permissions also get full access to the CLINT peripheral.
To fix this, enable access requests to CLINT [REF-1383 ] only if the user has suf ficient access as indicated by the acct\_ctrl\_i signal in
the boolean && with en\_acct.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-6260 Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) device implements Advanced High-performance Bus (AHB)
bridges that do not require authentication for arbitrary read and write access to the BMC's physical
address space from the host, and possibly the network [ REF-1138 ].(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
module aes0\_wrapper #(...)(...);
...
input logic acct\_ctrl\_i;
...
axi\_lite\_interface #(...
) axi\_lite\_interface\_i (
...
.en\_o ( en\_acct ),
...
..);
assign en = en\_acct && acct\_ctrl\_i;
...
endmodule
...
module clint #(...)(...);
...
axi\_lite\_interface #(...
) axi\_lite\_interface\_i (
...
.en\_o ( en ),
...
);
...
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module clint #(...
) (
...
input logic acct\_ctrl\_i,
...
);
logic en, en\_acct;
...
axi\_lite\_interface #(...
) axi\_lite\_interface\_i (
...
.en\_o ( en\_acct ),
...
);
assign en = en\_acct && acct\_ctrl\_i;
...
endmodule3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1317: Improper Access Control in Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1317.html 3/4
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that the design includes provisions for access-control checks in the bridge for both upstream and downstream
transactions.
Phase: Implementation
Implement access-control checks in the bridge for both upstream and downstream transactions.
 Detection Methods
Simulation / Emulation
RTL simulation to ensure that bridge-access controls are implemented properly .
Effectiveness: High
Formal V erification
Formal verification of bridge R TL to ensure that access control cannot be bypassed.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-122 Privilege Abuse
 References
[REF-1138] Stewart Smith. "CVE-2019-6260: Gaining control of BMC from the host processor". 2019.
.
[REF-1381] "aes0\_wrapper .sv lines 72 - 78". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/aes0/aes0\_wrapper .sv
#L72-L78 >. URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
[REF-1382] "clint.sv line 71". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/clint/clint.sv#L71C2-
L71C36 >. URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
[REF-1383] "Fix for clint.sv line 78". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/45a004368b5a31857008834d9780536f0764f055/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/clint/clint.sv#L78 >.
URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-19
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1317: Improper Access Control in Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1317.html 4/4