3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1075: Unconditional Control Flow Transfer outside of Switch Block (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1075.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1075: Unconditional Control Flow T ransfer outside of Switch Block
Weakness ID: 1075
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs unconditional control transfer (such as a "goto") in code outside of a branching structure such as a switch block.
 Extended Description
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or time-consuming
to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1120 Excessive Code Complexity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1226 Complexity Issues
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1130 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Maintainability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCMM ASCMM-
MNT -1
 ReferencesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1075: Unconditional Control Flow Transfer outside of Switch Block (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1075.html 2/2[REF-960] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Maintainability Measure (ASCMM)". ASCMM-MNT -1.
2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCMM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications