3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-910: Use of Expired File Descriptor (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/910.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-910: Use of Expired File Descriptor
Weakness ID: 910
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses or accesses a file descriptor after it has been closed.
 Extended Description
After a file descriptor for a particular file or device has been released, it can be reused. The code might not write to the original file,
since the reused file descriptor might reference a dif ferent file or device.
 Alternate T erms
Stale file descriptor
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
The program could read data from the wrong file.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Accessing a file descriptor that has been closed can cause a crash.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-910: Use of Expired File Descriptor (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/910.html 2/2MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding FIO46-C Exact Do not access a closed file
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2012-12-21
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
New weakness based on discussion on the CWE research list in December 2012.
 Modifications
