3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-123: Write-what-where Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/123.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-123: W rite-what-where Condition
Weakness ID: 123
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Any condition where the attacker has the ability to write an arbitrary value to an arbitrary location, often as the result of a buf fer
overflow .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
PeerOf 415 Double Free
CanFollow 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
CanFollow 134 Use of Externally-Controlled Format String
CanFollow 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
CanFollow 416 Use After Free
CanFollow 479 Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function
CanFollow 590 Free of Memory not on the Heap
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; DoS:
Crash, Exit, or Restart; Bypass Protection Mechanism
Clearly , write-what-where conditions can be used to write data to areas of memory outside the
scope of a policy . Also, they almost invariably can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is
usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy . If the attacker can overwrite a
pointer's worth of memory (usually 32 or 64 bits), they can redirect a function pointer to their own
malicious code. Even when the attacker can only modify a single byte arbitrary code execution can
be possible. Sometimes this is because the same problem can be exploited repeatedly to the same
effect. Other times it is because the attacker can overwrite security-critical application-specific data -
- such as a flag indicating whether the user is an administrator .
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Modify Memory
Many memory accesses can lead to program termination, such as when writing to addresses that
are invalid for the current process.
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other
security service.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-123: Write-what-where Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/123.html 2/3Example 1
The classic example of a write-what-where condition occurs when the accounting information for memory allocations is overwritten in
a particular fashion. Here is an example of potentially vulnerable code:
Vulnerability in this case is dependent on memory layout. The call to strcpy() can be used to write past the end of buf1, and, with a
typical layout, can overwrite the accounting information that the system keeps for buf2 when it is allocated. Note that if the allocation
header for buf2 can be overwritten, buf2 itself can be overwritten as well.
The allocation header will generally keep a linked list of memory "chunks". Particularly , there may be a "previous" chunk and a "next"
chunk. Here, the previous chunk for buf2 will probably be buf1, and the next chunk may be null. When the free() occurs, most memory
allocators will rewrite the linked list using data from buf2. Particularly , the "next" chunk for buf1 will be updated and the "previous"
chunk for any subsequent chunk will be updated. The attacker can insert a memory address for the "next" chunk and a value to write
into that memory address for the "previous" chunk.
This could be used to overwrite a function pointer that gets dereferenced later , replacing it with a memory address that the attacker
has legitimate access to, where they have placed malicious code, resulting in arbitrary code execution.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21668 Chain: Python library does not limit the resources used to process images that specify a very large
number of bands ( CWE-1284 ), leading to excessive memory consumption ( CWE-789 ) or an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ).
CVE-2022-0545 Chain: 3D renderer has an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) leading to write-what-where condition ( CWE-
123) using a crafted image.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that provides appropriate memory abstractions.
Phase: Operation
Use OS-level preventative functionality integrated after the fact. Not a complete solution.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Write-what-where condition
CER T C Secure Coding ARR30-C Imprecise Do not form or use out-of-bounds pointers or array subscripts
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define BUFSIZE 256
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char \*buf1 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZE);
char \*buf2 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZE);
strcpy(buf1, argv[1]);
free(buf2);
}3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-123: Write-what-where Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/123.html 3/3CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C Imprecise Guarantee that library functions do not form invalid pointers
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C Imprecise Guarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for character
data and the null terminator
CER T C Secure Coding STR32-C Imprecise Do not pass a non-null-terminated character sequence to a library
function that expects a string
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications