3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-5: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Data Transmission Without Encryption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/5.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-5: J2EE Misconfiguration: Data T ransmission W ithout Encryption
Weakness ID: 5
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Information sent over a network can be compromised while in transit. An attacker may be able to read or modify the contents if the
data are sent in plaintext or are weakly encrypted.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
The product configuration should ensure that SSL or an encryption mechanism of equivalent strength and vetted reputation is
used for all access-controlled pages.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-5: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Data Transmission Without Encryption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/5.html 2/2
 Notes
Other
If an application uses SSL to guarantee confidential communication with client browsers, the application configuration should make it
impossible to view any access controlled page without SSL. There are three common ways for SSL to be bypassed:
A user manually enters URL and types "HTTP" rather than "HTTPS".
Attackers intentionally send a user to an insecure URL.
A programmer erroneously creates a relative link to a page in the application, which does not switch from HTTP to HTTPS.
(This is particularly easy to do when the link moves between public and secured areas on a web site.)
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Misconfiguration: Insecure Transport
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names