3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1275: Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1275.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1275: Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute
Weakness ID: 1275
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The SameSite attribute for sensitive cookies is not set, or an insecure value is used.
 Extended Description
The SameSite attribute controls how cookies are sent for cross-domain requests. This attribute may have three values: 'Lax', 'Strict',
or 'None'. If the 'None' value is used, a website may create a cross-domain POST HTTP request to another website, and the browser
automatically adds cookies to this request. This may lead to Cross-Site-Request-Forgery (CSRF) attacks if there are no additional
protections in place (such as Anti-CSRF tokens).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
CanPrecede 352 Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation This weakness occurs during implementation when the coder does not properly set the SameSite attribute.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
If the website does not impose additional defense against CSRF attacks, failing to use the 'Lax' or
'Strict' values could increase the risk of exposure to CSRF attacks. The likelihood of the integrity
breach is Low because a successful attack does not only depend on an insecure SameSite
attribute. In order to perform a CSRF attack there are many conditions that must be met, such as
the lack of CSRF tokens, no confirmations for sensitive actions on the website, a "simple"
"Content-T ype" header in the HTTP request and many more.Low
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a cookie is used to store a session ID for a client's interaction with a website. The snippet of code below establishes a
new cookie to hold the sessionID.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
let sessionId = generateSessionId()
let cookieOptions = { domain: 'example.com' }
 ki(' iid' iId kiOti)3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1275: Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1275.html 2/3Since the sameSite attribute is not specified, the cookie will be sent to the website with each request made by the client. An attacker
can potentially perform a CSRF attack by using the following malicious page:
When the client visits this malicious web page, it submits a '/setEmail' POST HTTP request to the vulnerable website. Since the
browser automatically appends the 'sessionid' cookie to the request, the website automatically performs a 'setEmail' action on behalf
of the client.
To mitigate the risk, use the sameSite attribute of the 'sessionid' cookie set to 'Strict'.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-24045 Web application for a room automation system has client-side JavaScript that sets a sensitive cookie
without the SameSite security attribute, allowing the cookie to be snif fed
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Set the SameSite attribute of a sensitive cookie to 'Lax' or 'Strict'. This instructs the browser to apply this cookie only to same-
domain requests, which provides a good Defense in Depth against CSRF attacks. When the 'Lax' value is in use, cookies are
also sent for top-level cross-domain navigation via HTTP GET , HEAD, OPTIONS, and TRACE methods, but not for other HTTP
methods that are more like to cause side-ef fects of state mutation.
Effectiveness: High
Note: While this mitigation is ef fective for protecting cookies from a browser's own scripting engine, third-party components or
plugins may have their own engines that allow access to cookies. Attackers might also be able to use XMLHTTPResponse to
read the headers directly and obtain the cookie.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
response.cookie('sessionid', sessionId, cookieOptions)
(attack code) Example Language: HTML 




evil.submit()

(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
let sessionId = generateSessionId()
let cookieOptions = { domain: 'example.com', sameSite: 'Strict' }
response.cookie('sessionid', sessionId, cookieOptions)3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1275: Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1275.html 3/3CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-62 Cross Site Request Forgery
 References
[REF-1104] M. W est and M. Goodwin. "SameSite attribute specification draft". 2016-04-06.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1105] Mozilla. "SameSite attribute description on MDN W eb Docs". 2020-06-20. < https://developer .mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/W eb/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite >.
[REF-1106] The Chromium Projects. "Chromium support for SameSite attribute". 2019-09-26.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-19
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Michael Stepankin Veracode
 Modifications