3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-379: Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/379.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-379: Creation of T emporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions
Weakness ID: 379
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product creates a temporary file in a directory whose permissions allow unintended actors to determine the file's existence or
otherwise access that file.
 Extended Description
On some operating systems, the fact that the temporary file exists may be apparent to any user with suf ficient privileges to access
that directory . Since the file is visible, the application that is using the temporary file could be known. If one has access to list the
processes on the system, the attacker has gained information about what the user is doing at that time. By correlating this with the
applications the user is running, an attacker could potentially discover what a user's actions are. From this, higher levels of security
could be breached.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 377 Insecure Temporary File
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Since the file is visible and the application which is using the temp file could be known, the attacker
has gained information about what the user is doing at that time.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code examples a temporary file is created and written to. After using the temporary file, the file is closed and deleted
from the file system.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
FILE \*stream;
if( (stream = tmpfile()) == NULL ) {
perror("Could not open new temporary file\n");
return (-1);
}
// write data to tmp file
...
// tfil3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-379: Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/379.html 2/3However , within this C/C++ code the method tmpfile() is used to create and open the temp file. The tmpfile() method works the same
way as the fopen() method would with read/write permission, allowing attackers to read potentially sensitive information contained in
the temp file or modify the contents of the file.
Similarly , the createT empFile() method used in the Java code creates a temp file that may be readable and writable to all users.
Additionally both methods used above place the file into a default directory . On UNIX systems the default directory is usually "/tmp" or
"/var/tmp" and on Windows systems the default directory is usually "C:\\Windows\\T emp", which may be easily accessible to attackers,
possibly enabling them to read and modify the contents of the temp file.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-27818 A hotkey daemon written in Rust creates a domain socket file underneath /tmp, which is accessible by
any user .
CVE-2021-21290 A Java-based application for a rapid-development framework uses File.createT empFile() to create a
random temporary file with insecure default permissions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Many contemporary languages have functions which properly handle this condition. Older C temp file functions are especially
susceptible.
Phase: Implementation
Try to store sensitive tempfiles in a directory which is not world readable -- i.e., per-user directories.
Phase: Implementation
Avoid using vulnerable temp file functions.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 964 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposure Temporary File
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
// remove tmp file
rmtmp();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
File temp = File.createTempFile("pattern", ".suffix");
temp.deleteOnExit();
BufferedWriter out = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter(temp));
out.write("aString");
out.close();
}
catch (IOException e) {
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-379: Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/379.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Guessed or visible temporary file
CER T C Secure Coding FIO15-C Ensure that file operations are performed in a secure directory
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "T emporary
Files", Page 538. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names