3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-111: Direct Use of Unsafe JNI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/111.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-111: Direct Use of Unsafe JNI
Weakness ID: 111
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When a Java application uses the Java Native Interface (JNI) to call code written in another programming language, it can expose the
application to weaknesses in that code, even if those weaknesses cannot occur in Java.
 Extended Description
Many safety features that programmers may take for granted do not apply for native code, so you must carefully review all such code
for potential problems. The languages used to implement native code may be more susceptible to buf fer overflows and other attacks.
Native code is unprotected by the security features enforced by the runtime environment, such as strong typing and array bounds
checking.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 695 Use of Low-Level Functionality
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code defines a class named Echo. The class declares one native method (defined below), which uses C to echo
commands entered on the console back to the user . The following C code defines the native method implemented in the Echo class:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
class Echo {
public native void runEcho();
static {
System.loadLibrary("echo");
}
public static void main(String[] args) {
new Echo().runEcho();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include "Echo.h"//the java class above compiled with javah
#include 3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-111: Direct Use of Unsafe JNI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/111.html 2/3Because the example is implemented in Java, it may appear that it is immune to memory issues like buf fer overflow vulnerabilities.
Although Java does do a good job of making memory operations safe, this protection does not extend to vulnerabilities occurring in
source code written in other languages that are accessed using the Java Native Interface. Despite the memory protections of fered in
Java, the C code in this example is vulnerable to a buf fer overflow because it makes use of gets(), which does not check the length of
its input.
The Sun Java(TM) Tutorial provides the following description of JNI [See Reference]: The JNI framework lets your native method
utilize Java objects in the same way that Java code uses these objects. A native method can create Java objects, including arrays and
strings, and then inspect and use these objects to perform its tasks. A native method can also inspect and use objects created by
Java application code. A native method can even update Java objects that it created or that were passed to it, and these updated
objects are available to the Java application. Thus, both the native language side and the Java side of an application can create,
update, and access Java objects and then share these objects between them.
The vulnerability in the example above could easily be detected through a source code audit of the native method implementation.
This may not be practical or possible depending on the availability of the C source code and the way the project is built, but in many
cases it may suf fice. However , the ability to share objects between Java and native methods expands the potential risk to much more
insidious cases where improper data handling in Java may lead to unexpected vulnerabilities in native code or unsafe operations in
native code corrupt data structures in Java. V ulnerabilities in native code accessed through a Java application are typically exploited
in the same manner as they are in applications written in the native language. The only challenge to such an attack is for the attacker
to identify that the Java application uses native code to perform certain operations. This can be accomplished in a variety of ways,
including identifying specific behaviors that are often implemented with native code or by exploiting a system information exposure in
the Java application that reveals its use of JNI [See Reference].
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Implement error handling around the JNI call.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Refactoring
Do not use JNI calls if you don't trust the native library .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Refactoring
Be reluctant to use JNI calls. A Java API equivalent may exist.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1151 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 17. Java Native Interface (JNI)
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
JNIEXPORT void JNICALL
Java\_Echo\_runEcho(JNIEnv \*env, jobject obj)
{
char buf[64];
gets(buf);
printf(buf);
}3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-111: Direct Use of Unsafe JNI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/111.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Unsafe JNI
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC08-J Define wrappers around native methods
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaJNI01-J Safely invoke standard APIs that perform tasks using the immediate
caller's class loader instance (loadLibrary)
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaJNI00-J Imprecise Define wrappers around native methods
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-41] Fortify Software. "Fortify Descriptions". < http://vulncat.fortifysoftware.com >.
[REF-42] Beth Stearns. "The Java(TM) Tutorial: The Java Native Interface". Sun Microsystems. 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names