3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/807.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision
Weakness ID: 807
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a protection mechanism that relies on the existence or values of an input, but the input can be modified by an
untrusted actor in a way that bypasses the protection mechanism.
 Extended Description
Developers may assume that inputs such as cookies, environment variables, and hidden form fields cannot be modified. However , an
attacker could change these inputs using customized clients or other attacks. This change might not be detected. When security
decisions such as authentication and authorization are made based on the values of these inputs, attackers can bypass the security
of the software.
Without suf ficient encryption, integrity checking, or other mechanism, any input that originates from an outsider cannot be trusted.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 302 Authentication Bypass by Assumed-Immutable Data
ParentOf 350 Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action
ParentOf 784 Reliance on Cookies without V alidation and Integrity Checking in a Security Decision
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access Control
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Varies by Context
Attackers can bypass the security decision to access whatever is being protected. The
consequences will depend on the associated functionality , but they can range from granting
additional privileges to untrusted users to bypassing important security checks. Ultimately , this
weakness may lead to exposure or modification of sensitive data, system crash, or execution of
arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code excerpt reads a value from a browser cookie to determine the role of the user .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/807.html 2/5Example 2
The following code could be for a medical records application. It performs authentication by checking if a cookie has been set.
The programmer expects that the AuthenticateUser() check will always be applied, and the "authenticated" cookie will only be set
when authentication succeeds. The programmer even diligently specifies a 2-hour expiration for the cookie.
However , the attacker can set the "authenticated" cookie to a non-zero value such as 1. As a result, the $auth variable is 1, and the
AuthenticateUser() check is not even performed. The attacker has bypassed the authentication.
Example 3
In the following example, an authentication flag is read from a browser cookie, thus allowing for external control of user state data.
Example 4
The following code samples use a DNS lookup in order to decide whether or not an inbound request is from a trusted host. If an
attacker can poison the DNS cache, they can gain trusted status.Cookie[] cookies = request.getCookies();
for (int i =0; i< cookies.length; i++) {
Cookie c = cookies[i];
if (c.getName().equals("role")) {
userRole = c.getValue();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$auth = $\_COOKIES['authenticated'];
if (! $auth) {
if (AuthenticateUser($\_POST['user'], $\_POST['password']) == "success") {
// save the cookie to send out in future responses
setcookie("authenticated", "1", time()+60\*60\*2);
}
else {
ShowLoginScreen();
die("\n");
}
}
DisplayMedicalHistory($\_POST['patient\_ID']);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Cookie[] cookies = request.getCookies();
for (int i =0; i< cookies.length; i++) {
Cookie c = cookies[i];
if (c.getName().equals("authenticated") && Boolean.TRUE.equals(c.getValue())) {
authenticated = true;
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
struct hostent \*hp;struct in\_addr myaddr;
char\* tHost = "trustme.example.com";
myaddr.s\_addr=inet\_addr(ip\_addr\_string);
hp = gethostbyaddr((char \*) &myaddr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
if (hp && !strncmp(hp->h\_name, tHost, sizeof(tHost))) {
trusted = true;
} else {
trusted = false;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String ip = request.getRemoteAddr();
InetAddress addr = InetAddress.getByName(ip);
if (addr.getCanonicalHostName().endsWith("trustme.com")) {
trusted = true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
IPAddress hostIPAddress = IPAddress.Parse(RemoteIpAddress);
IPHostEntry hostInfo = Dns.GetHostByAddress(hostIPAddress);
if (hostInfo.HostName.EndsWith("trustme.com")) {
trusted = true;
}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/807.html 3/5IP addresses are more reliable than DNS names, but they can also be spoofed. Attackers can easily forge the source IP address of
the packets they send, but response packets will return to the forged IP address. To see the response packets, the attacker has to
sniff the traf fic between the victim machine and the forged IP address. In order to accomplish the required snif fing, attackers typically
attempt to locate themselves on the same subnet as the victim machine. Attackers may be able to circumvent this requirement by
using source routing, but source routing is disabled across much of the Internet today . In summary , IP address verification can be a
useful part of an authentication scheme, but it should not be the single factor required for authentication.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-1549 Attacker can bypass authentication by setting a cookie to a specific value.
CVE-2009-1619 Attacker can bypass authentication and gain admin privileges by setting an "admin" cookie to 1.
CVE-2009-0864 Content management system allows admin privileges by setting a "login" cookie to "OK."
CVE-2008-5784 e-dating application allows admin privileges by setting the admin cookie to 1.
CVE-2008-6291 Web-based email list manager allows attackers to gain admin privileges by setting a login cookie to
"admin."
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Store state information and sensitive data on the server side only .
Ensure that the system definitively and unambiguously keeps track of its own state and user state and has rules defined for
legitimate state transitions. Do not allow any application user to af fect state directly in any way other than through legitimate
actions leading to state transitions.
If information must be stored on the client, do not do so without encryption and integrity checking, or otherwise having a
mechanism on the server side to catch tampering. Use a message authentication code (MAC) algorithm, such as Hash Message
Authentication Code (HMAC) [ REF-529 ]. Apply this against the state or sensitive data that has to be exposed, which can
guarantee the integrity of the data - i.e., that the data has not been modified. Ensure that a strong hash function is used ( CWE-
328).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
With a stateless protocol such as HTTP , use a framework that maintains the state for you.
Examples include ASP.NET View State [ REF-756 ] and the OW ASP ESAPI Session Management feature [ REF-45 ].
Be careful of language features that provide state support, since these might be provided as a convenience to the programmer
and may not be considering security .
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phases: Operation; Implementation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
When using PHP , configure the application so that it does not use register\_globals. During implementation, develop the
application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register\_globals emulation that is subject to
weaknesses such as CWE-95 , CWE-621 , and similar issues.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your software: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything
read from the network, environment variables, reverse DNS lookups, query results, request headers, URL components, e-mail,
files, filenames, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Remember that such inputs may be
obtained indirectly through API calls.
Identify all inputs that are used for security decisions and determine if you can modify the design so that you do not have to rely
on submitted inputs at all. For example, you may be able to keep critical information about the user's session on the server side
instead of recording it within external data.
 Detection Methods
Manual Static Analysis
Since this weakness does not typically appear frequently within a single software package, manual white box techniques may be
able to provide suf ficient code coverage and reduction of false positives if all potentially-vulnerable operations can be assessed
within limited time constraints.
Effectiveness: High}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/807.html 4/5Note: The ef fectiveness and speed of manual analysis will be reduced if the there is not a centralized security mechanism, and
the security logic is widely distributed throughout the software.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-807: Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/807.html 5/5
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 878 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 10 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1373 ICS Engineering (Construction/Deployment): Trust Model Problems
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC09-J Do not base security checks on untrusted sources
 References
[REF-754] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 6 - Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision". SANS Software Security
Institute. 2010-03-05. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-6-reliance-on-untrusted-inputs-in-a-security-decision/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-529] "HMAC". Wikipedia. 2011-08-18. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-756] Scott Mitchell. "Understanding ASP.NET View State". Microsoft. 2004-05-15. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/previous-versions/dotnet/articles/ms972976(v=msdn.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-01-18
(CWE 1.8, 2010-02-16)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
