3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-911: Improper Update of Reference Count (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/911.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-911: Improper Update of Reference Count
Weakness ID: 911
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a reference count to manage a resource, but it does not update or incorrectly updates the reference count.
 Extended Description
Reference counts can be used when tracking how many objects contain a reference to a particular resource, such as in memory
management or garbage collection. When the reference count reaches zero, the resource can be de-allocated or reused because
there are no more objects that use it. If the reference count accidentally reaches zero, then the resource might be released too soon,
even though it is still in use. If all objects no longer use the resource, but the reference count is not zero, then the resource might not
ever be released.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
CanPrecede 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
CanPrecede 772 Missing Release of Resource after Ef fective Lifetime
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0574 chain: reference count is not decremented, leading to memory leak in OS by sending ICMP packets.
CVE-2004-0114 Reference count for shared memory not decremented when a function fails, potentially allowing
unprivileged users to read kernel memory .
CVE-2006-3741 chain: improper reference count tracking leads to file descriptor consumption
CVE-2007-1383 chain: integer overflow in reference counter causes the same variable to be destroyed twice.
CVE-2007-1700 Incorrect reference count calculation leads to improper object destruction and code execution.
CVE-2008-2136 chain: incorrect update of reference count leads to memory leak.
CVE-2008-2785 chain/composite: use of incorrect data type for a reference counter allows an overflow of the counter ,
leading to a free of memory that is still in use.
CVE-2008-5410 Improper reference counting leads to failure of cryptographic operations.
CVE-2009-1709 chain: improper reference counting in a garbage collection routine leads to use-after-free
CVE-2009-3553 chain: reference count not correctly maintained when client disconnects during a large operation,
leading to a use-after-free.
CVE-2009-3624 Reference count not always incremented, leading to crash or code execution.
CVE-2010-0176 improper reference counting leads to expired pointer dereference.
CVE-2010-0623 OS kernel increments reference count twice but only decrements once, leading to resource
consumption and crash.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-911: Improper Update of Reference Count (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/911.html 2/2CVE-2010-2549 OS kernel driver allows code execution
CVE-2010-4593 improper reference counting leads to exhaustion of IP addresses
CVE-2011-0695 Race condition causes reference counter to be decremented prematurely , leading to the destruction of
still-active object and an invalid pointer dereference.
CVE-2012-4787 improper reference counting leads to use-after-free
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-884] Mateusz "j00ru" Jurczyk. "Windows Kernel Reference Count V ulnerabilities - Case Study". 2012-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2012-12-21
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
