3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-656: Reliance on Security Through Obscurity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/656.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-656: Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
Weakness ID: 656
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a protection mechanism whose strength depends heavily on its obscurity , such that knowledge of its algorithms or
key data is suf ficient to defeat the mechanism.
 Extended Description
This reliance on "security through obscurity" can produce resultant weaknesses if an attacker is able to reverse engineer the inner
workings of the mechanism. Note that obscurity can be one small part of defense in depth, since it can create more work for an
attacker; however , it is a significant risk if used as the primary means of protection.
 Alternate T erms
Never Assuming your secrets are safe
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
PeerOf 603 Use of Client-Side Authentication
CanPrecede 259 Use of Hard-coded Password
CanPrecede 321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
CanPrecede 472 External Control of Assumed-Immutable W eb Parameter
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
The security mechanism can be bypassed easily .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The design of TCP relies on the secrecy of Initial Sequence Numbers (ISNs), as originally covered in CVE-1999-0077 [ REF-542 ]. If
ISNs can be guessed (due to predictability , CWE-330 ) or snif fed (due to lack of encryption during transmission, CWE-312 ), then an
attacker can hijack or spoof connections. Many TCP implementations have had variations of this problem over the years, including
CVE-2004-0641, CVE-2002-1463, CVE-2001-0751, CVE-2001-0328, CVE-2001-0288, CVE-2001-0163, CVE-2001-0162, CVE-2000-
0916, and CVE-2000-0328.
Example 1 References:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-656: Reliance on Security Through Obscurity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/656.html 2/3[REF-542] Jon Postel, Editor. "RFC: 793, TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROTOCOL". Information Sciences Institute. 1981-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-6588 Reliance on hidden form fields in a web application. Many web application vulnerabilities exist because
the developer did not consider that "hidden" form fields can be processed using a modified client.
CVE-2006-7142 Hard-coded cryptographic key stored in executable program.
CVE-2005-4002 Hard-coded cryptographic key stored in executable program.
CVE-2006-4068 Hard-coded hashed values for username and password contained in client-side script, allowing brute-
force of fline attacks.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Always consider whether knowledge of your code or design is suf ficient to break it. Reverse engineering is a highly successful
discipline, and financially feasible for motivated adversaries. Black-box techniques are established for binary analysis of
executables that use obfuscation, runtime analysis of proprietary protocols, inferring file formats, and others.
Phase: Architecture and Design
When available, use publicly-vetted algorithms and procedures, as these are more likely to undergo more extensive security
analysis and testing. This is especially the case with encryption and authentication.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
Note that there is a close relationship between this weakness and CWE-603 (Use of Client-Side Authentication). If developers do not
believe that a user can reverse engineer a client, then they are more likely to choose client-side authentication in the belief that it is
safe.
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-544] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Never Assuming that Your Secrets Are Safe". 2005-09-14.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-542] Jon Postel, Editor . "RFC: 793, TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROT OCOL". Information Sciences Institute. 1981-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Modifications
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-656: Reliance on Security Through Obscurity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/656.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names