3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-924: Improper Enforcement of Message Integrity During Transmission in a Communication Cha…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/924.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-924: Improper Enforcement of Message Integrity During T ransmission in a
Communication Channel
Weakness ID: 924
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product establishes a communication channel with an endpoint and receives a message from that endpoint, but it does not
sufficiently ensure that the message was not modified during transmission.
 Extended Description
Attackers might be able to modify the message and spoof the endpoint by interfering with the data as it crosses the network or by
redirecting the connection to a system under their control.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If an attackers can spoof the endpoint, the attacker gains all the privileges that were intended for the
original endpoint.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-924: Improper Enforcement of Message Integrity During Transmission in a Communication Cha…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/924.html 2/2Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry should be made more comprehensive in later CWE versions, as it is likely an important design flaw that underlies (or
chains to) other weaknesses.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-06-23
(CWE 2.5, 2013-07-17)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications