3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-72: Improper Handling of Apple HFS+ Alternate Data Stream Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/72.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-72: Improper Handling of Apple HFS+ Alternate Data Stream Path
Weakness ID: 72
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle special paths that may identify the data or resource fork of a file on the HFS+ file system.
 Extended Description
If the product chooses actions to take based on the file name, then if an attacker provides the data or resource fork, the product may
take unexpected actions. Further , if the product intends to restrict access to a file, then an attacker might still be able to bypass
intended access restrictions by requesting the data or resource fork for that file.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 66 Improper Handling of File Names that Identify V irtual Resources
 Background Details
The Apple HFS+ file system permits files to have multiple data input streams, accessible through special paths. The Mac OS X
operating system provides a way to access the dif ferent data input streams through special paths and as an extended attribute:
- Resource fork: file/..namedfork/rsrc, file/rsrc (deprecated), xattr:com.apple.ResourceFork
- Data fork: file/..namedfork/data (only versions prior to Mac OS X v10.5)
Additionally , on filesystems that lack native support for multiple streams, the resource fork and file metadata may be stored in a file
with ".\_" prepended to the name.
Forks can also be accessed through non-portable APIs.
Forks inherit the file system access controls of the file they belong to.
Programs need to control access to these paths, if the processing of a file system object is dependent on the structure of its path.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: macOS (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A web server that interprets FILE.cgi as processing instructions could disclose the source code for FILE.cgi by requesting
FILE.cgi/..namedfork/data. This might occur because the web server invokes the default handler which may return the contents of the
file.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1084 Server allows remote attackers to read files and resource fork content via HTTP requests to certain
special file names related to multiple data streams in HFS+.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-72: Improper Handling of Apple HFS+ Alternate Data Stream Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/72.html 2/2MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
This and similar problems exist because the same resource can have multiple identifiers that dictate which behavior can be
performed on the resource.
Research Gap
Under-studied
 References
[REF-578] NetSec. "NetSec Security Advisory: Multiple V ulnerabilities Resulting From Use Of Apple OSX HFS+". BugT raq. 2005-
02-16. < https://seclists.org/bugtraq/2005/Feb/309 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
