3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-203: Observable Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/203.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-203: Observable Discrepancy
Weakness ID: 203
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product behaves dif ferently or sends dif ferent responses under dif ferent circumstances in a way that is observable to an
unauthorized actor , which exposes security-relevant information about the state of the product, such as whether a particular operation
was successful or not.
 Extended Description
Discrepancies can take many forms, and variations may be detectable in timing, control flow , communications such as replies or
requests, or general behavior . These discrepancies can reveal information about the product's operation or internal state to an
unauthorized actor . In some cases, discrepancies can be used by attackers to form a side channel.
 Alternate T erms
Side Channel Attack: Observable Discrepancies are at the root of side channel attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
ParentOf 204 Observable Response Discrepancy
ParentOf 205 Observable Behavioral Discrepancy
ParentOf 208 Observable Timing Discrepancy
ParentOf 1300 Improper Protection of Physical Side Channels
ParentOf 1303 Non-T ransparent Sharing of Microarchitectural Resources
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1205 Security Primitives and Cryptography Issues
ParentOf 1300 Improper Protection of Physical Side Channels
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker can gain access to sensitive information about the system, including authentication
information that may allow an attacker to gain access to the system.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
When cryptographic primitives are vulnerable to side-channel-attacks, this could be used to reveal
unencrypted plaintext in the worst case.
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-203: Observable Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/203.html 2/4Example 1
The following code checks validity of the supplied username and password and notifies the user of a successful or failed login.
In the above code, there are dif ferent messages for when an incorrect username is supplied, versus when the username is correct but
the password is wrong. This dif ference enables a potential attacker to understand the state of the login function, and could allow an
attacker to discover a valid username by trying dif ferent values until the incorrect password message is returned. In essence, this
makes it easier for an attacker to obtain half of the necessary authentication credentials.
While this type of information may be helpful to a user , it is also useful to a potential attacker . In the above example, the message for
both failed cases should be the same, such as:
Example 2
In this example, the attacker observes how long an authentication takes when the user types in the correct password.
When the attacker tries their own values, they can first try strings of various length. When they find a string of the right length, the
computation will take a bit longer , because the for loop will run at least once. Additionally , with this code, the attacker can possibly
learn one character of the password at a time, because when they guess the first character right, the computation will take longer than
a wrong guesses. Such an attack can break even the most sophisticated password with a few hundred guesses.
Note that in this example, the actual password must be handled in constant time as far as the attacker is concerned, even if the actual
password is of an unusual length. This is one reason why it is good to use an algorithm that, among other things, stores a seeded
cryptographic one-way hash of the password, then compare the hashes, which will always be of the same length.
Example 3
Non-uniform processing time causes timing channel.
In the example above, an attacker may vary the inputs, then observe dif ferences between processing times (since dif ferent plaintexts
take dif ferent time). This could be used to infer information about the key .
Example 4(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $username=param('username');
my $password=param('password');
if (IsValidUsername($username) == 1)
{
if (IsValidPassword($username, $password) == 1)
{
print "Login Successful";
}
else
{
print "Login Failed - incorrect password";
}
}
else
{
print "Login Failed - unknown username";
}
(result) 
"Login Failed - incorrect username or password"
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def validate\_password(actual\_pw, typed\_pw):
if len(actual\_pw) <> len(typed\_pw):
return 0
for i in len(actual\_pw):
if actual\_pw[i] <> typed\_pw[i]:
return 0
return 1
(bad code) 
Suppose an algorithm for implementing an encryption routine works fine per se, but the time taken to output the result of the encryption
routine depends on a relationship between the input plaintext and the key (e.g., suppose, if the plaintext is similar to the key, it would run
very fast).
(good code) 
Artificial delays may be added to ensured all calculations take equal time to execute.3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-203: Observable Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/203.html 3/4Suppose memory access patterns for an encryption routine are dependent on the secret key .
An attacker can recover the key by knowing if specific memory locations have been accessed or not. The value stored at those
memory locations is irrelevant. The encryption routine's memory accesses will af fect the state of the processor cache. If cache
resources are shared across contexts, after the encryption routine completes, an attacker in dif ferent execution context can discover
which memory locations the routine accessed by measuring the time it takes for their own memory accesses to complete.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-8695 Observable discrepancy in the RAPL interface for some Intel processors allows information disclosure.
CVE-2019-14353 Crypto hardware wallet's power consumption relates to total number of pixels illuminated, creating a
side channel in the USB connection that allows attackers to determine secrets displayed such as PIN
numbers and passwords
CVE-2019-10071 Java-oriented framework compares HMAC signatures using String.equals() instead of a constant-time
algorithm, causing timing discrepancies
CVE-2002-2094 This, and others, use ".." attacks and monitor error responses, so there is overlap with directory
traversal.
CVE-2001-1483 Enumeration of valid usernames based on inconsistent responses
CVE-2001-1528 Account number enumeration via inconsistent responses.
CVE-2004-2150 User enumeration via discrepancies in error messages.
CVE-2005-1650 User enumeration via discrepancies in error messages.
CVE-2004-0294 Bulletin Board displays dif ferent error messages when a user exists or not, which makes it easier for
remote attackers to identify valid users and conduct a brute force password guessing attack.
CVE-2004-0243 Operating System, when direct remote login is disabled, displays a dif ferent message if the password is
correct, which allows remote attackers to guess the password via brute force methods.
CVE-2002-0514 Product allows remote attackers to determine if a port is being filtered because the response packet
TTL is dif ferent than the default TTL.
CVE-2002-0515 Product sets a dif ferent TTL when a port is being filtered than when it is not being filtered, which allows
remote attackers to identify filtered ports by comparing TTLs.
CVE-2002-0208 Product modifies TCP/IP stack and ICMP error messages in unusual ways that show the product is in
use.
CVE-2004-2252 Behavioral infoleak by responding to SYN-FIN packets.
CVE-2001-1387 Product may generate dif ferent responses than specified by the administrator , possibly leading to an
information leak.
CVE-2004-0778 Version control system allows remote attackers to determine the existence of arbitrary files and
directories via the -X command for an alternate history file, which causes dif ferent error messages to
be returned.
CVE-2004-1428 FTP server generates an error message if the user name does not exist instead of prompting for a
password, which allows remote attackers to determine valid usernames.
CVE-2003-0078 SSL implementation does not perform a MAC computation if an incorrect block cipher padding is used,
which causes an information leak (timing discrepancy) that may make it easier to launch cryptographic
attacks that rely on distinguishing between padding and MAC verification errors, possibly leading to
extraction of the original plaintext, aka the "V audenay timing attack."
CVE-2000-1117 Virtual machine allows malicious web site operators to determine the existence of files on the client by
measuring delays in the execution of the getSystemResource method.
CVE-2003-0637 Product uses a shorter timeout for a non-existent user than a valid user , which makes it easier for
remote attackers to guess usernames and conduct brute force password guessing.
CVE-2003-0190 Product immediately sends an error message when a user does not exist, which allows remote
attackers to determine valid usernames via a timing attack.
CVE-2004-1602 FTP server responds in a dif ferent amount of time when a given username exists, which allows remote
attackers to identify valid usernames by timing the server response.
CVE-2005-0918 Browser allows remote attackers to determine the existence of arbitrary files by setting the src property
to the target filename and using Javascript to determine if the web page immediately stops loading,
which indicates whether the file exists or not.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience and no one else. The
messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic (which can confuse users) or being too detailed (which may
reveal more than intended). The messages should not reveal the methods that were used to determine the error . Attackers can
use detailed information to refine or optimize their original attack, thereby increasing their chances of success.
If errors must be captured in some detail, record them in log messages, but consider what could occur if the log messages can
be viewed by attackers. Highly sensitive information such as passwords should never be saved to log files.3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-203: Observable Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/203.html 4/4Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip of f an attacker about internal state, such as whether a user account
exists or not.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 717 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A6 - Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 967 SFP Secondary Cluster: State Disclosure
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Discrepancy Information Leaks
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A6 CWE More Specific Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A7 CWE More Specific Improper Error Handling
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-189 Black Box Reverse Engineering
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2020-06-03 Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
Provided Demonstrative Example for cache timing attack
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
