3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-158: Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/158.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-158: Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character
Weakness ID: 158
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes NUL characters or null
bytes when they are sent to a downstream component.
 Extended Description
As data is parsed, an injected NUL character or null byte may cause the product to believe the input is terminated earlier than it
actually is, or otherwise cause the input to be misinterpreted. This could then be used to inject potentially dangerous input that occurs
after the null byte or otherwise bypass validation routines and other protection mechanisms.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-1284 NUL byte in theme name causes directory traversal impact to be worse
CVE-2005-2008 Source code disclosure using trailing null.
CVE-2005-3293 Source code disclosure using trailing null.
CVE-2005-2061 Trailing null allows file include.
CVE-2002-1774 Null character in MIME header allows detection bypass.
CVE-2000-0149 Web server allows remote attackers to view the source code for CGI programs via a null character
(%00) at the end of a URL.
CVE-2000-0671 Web server earlier allows allows remote attackers to bypass access restrictions, list directory contents,
and read source code by inserting a null character (%00) in the URL.
CVE-2001-0738 Logging system allows an attacker to cause a denial of service (hang) by causing null bytes to be
placed in log messages.
CVE-2001-1140 Web server allows source code for executable programs to be read via a null character (%00) at the
end of a request.
CVE-2002-1031 Protection mechanism for limiting file access can be bypassed using a null character (%00) at the end
of the directory name.
CVE-2002-1025 Application server allows remote attackers to read JSP source code via an encoded null byte in an
HTTP GET request, which causes the server to send the .JSP file unparsed.
CVE-2003-0768 XSS protection mechanism only checks for sequences with an alphabetical character following a (<),
so a non-alphabetical or null character (%00) following a < may be processed.
CVE-2004-0189 Decoding function in proxy allows regular expression bypass in ACLs via URLs with null characters.
CVE-2005-3153 Null byte bypasses PHP regexp check (interaction error).
CVE-2005-4155 Null byte bypasses PHP regexp check (interaction error).
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-158: Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/158.html 2/3Developers should anticipate that null characters or null bytes will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their
product. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is
processed by the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can be a factor in multiple interpretation errors, other interaction errors, filename equivalence, etc.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Null Character / Null Byte
WASC 28 Null Byte Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-52 Embedding NULL Bytes
CAPEC-53 Postfix, Null Terminate, and Backslash
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "NUL Character
Injection", Page 411. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-158: Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/158.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names