3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-759: Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/759.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-759: Use of a One-W ay Hash without a Salt
Weakness ID: 759
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a one-way cryptographic hash against an input that should not be reversible, such as a password, but the product
does not also use a salt as part of the input.
 Extended Description
This makes it easier for attackers to pre-compute the hash value using dictionary attack techniques such as rainbow tables.
It should be noted that, despite common perceptions, the use of a good salt with a hash does not suf ficiently increase the ef fort for an
attacker who is targeting an individual password, or who has a large amount of computing resources available, such as with cloud-
based services or specialized, inexpensive hardware. Of fline password cracking can still be ef fective if the hash function is not
expensive to compute; many cryptographic functions are designed to be ef ficient and can be vulnerable to attacks using massive
computing resources, even if the hash is cryptographically strong. The use of a salt only slightly increases the computing
requirements for an attacker compared to other strategies such as adaptive hash functions. See CWE-916 for more details.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 916 Use of Password Hash With Insuf ficient Computational Ef fort
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
In cryptography , salt refers to some random addition of data to an input before hashing to make dictionary attacks more dif ficult.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If an attacker can gain access to the hashes, then the lack of a salt makes it easier to conduct brute
force attacks using techniques such as rainbow tables.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In both of these examples, a user is logged in if their given password matches a stored password:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned char \*check\_passwd(char \*plaintext) {
ctext = simple\_digest("sha1",plaintext,strlen(plaintext), ... );
//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(ctext, secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String plainText = new String(plainTextIn);
MessageDigest encer = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
encer.update(plainTextIn);
byte[] digest = password.digest();
//Liifhh th tdhh3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-759: Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/759.html 2/4This code relies exclusively on a password mechanism ( CWE-309 ) using only one factor of authentication ( CWE-308 ). If an attacker
can steal or guess a user's password, they are given full access to their account. Note this code also uses SHA-1, which is a weak
hash ( CWE-328 ). It also does not use a salt ( CWE-759 ).
Example 2
In this example, a new user provides a new username and password to create an account. The program hashes the new user's
password then stores it in a database.
While it is good to avoid storing a cleartext password, the program does not provide a salt to the hashing function, thus increasing the
chances of an attacker being able to reverse the hash and discover the original password if the database is compromised.
Fixing this is as simple as providing a salt to the hashing function on initialization:
Note that regardless of the usage of a salt, the md5 hash is no longer considered secure, so this example still exhibits CWE-327 .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-1526 Router does not use a salt with a hash, making it easier to crack passwords.
CVE-2006-1058 Router does not use a salt with a hash, making it easier to crack passwords.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an adaptive hash function that can be configured to change the amount of computational ef fort needed to compute the
hash, such as the number of iterations ("stretching") or the amount of memory required. Some hash functions perform salting
automatically . These functions can significantly increase the overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast
functions such as MD5. For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing overhead. Finally ,
since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique can be reconfigured to increase the workload without
forcing an entire replacement of the algorithm in use.
Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties include bcrypt [ REF-291 ], scrypt [ REF-292 ], and
PBKDF2 [ REF-293 ]. While there is active debate about which of these is the most ef fective, they are all stronger than using salts
with hash functions with very little computing overhead.
Note that using these functions can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-of-
service attacks. However , their configurability provides finer control over how much CPU and memory is used, so it could be
adjusted to suit the environment's needs.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
If a technique that requires extra computational ef fort can not be implemented, then for each password that is processed,
generate a new random salt using a strong random number generator with unpredictable seeds. Add the salt to the plaintext
password before hashing it. When storing the hash, also store the salt. Do not use the same salt for every password.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: Be aware that salts will not reduce the workload of a targeted attack against an individual hash (such as the password for a
critical person), and in general they are less ef fective than other hashing techniques such as increasing the computation time or
memory overhead. Without a built-in workload, modern attacks can compute large numbers of hashes, or even exhaust the
entire space of all possible passwords, within a very short amount of time, using massively-parallel computing and GPU, ASIC,
or FPGA hardware.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(digest,secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def storePassword(userName,Password):
hasher = hashlib.new('md5')
hasher.update(Password)
hashedPassword = hasher.digest()
# UpdateUserLogin returns True on success, False otherwise
return updateUserLogin(userName,hashedPassword)
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def storePassword(userName,Password):
hasher = hashlib.new('md5',b'SaltGoesHere')
hasher.update(Password)
hashedPassword = hasher.digest()
# UpdateUserLogin returns True on success, False otherwise
return updateUserLogin(userName,hashedPassword)3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-759: Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/759.html 3/4When using industry-approved techniques, use them correctly . Don't cut corners by skipping resource-intensive steps ( CWE-
325). These steps are often essential for preventing common attacks.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 816 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A7 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 958 SFP Secondary Cluster: Broken Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-759: Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/759.html 4/4Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-291] Johnny Shelley . "bcrypt". < http://bcrypt.sourceforge.net/ >.
[REF-292] Colin Percival. "T arsnap - The scrypt key derivation function and encryption utility".
.
[REF-293] B. Kaliski. "RFC2898 - PKCS #5: Password-Based Cryptography Specification V ersion 2.0". 5.2 PBKDF2. 2000.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-294] Coda Hale. "How To Safely Store A Password". 2010-01-31. < https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-295] Brian Krebs. "How Companies Can Beef Up Password Security (interview with Thomas H. Ptacek)". 2012-06-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-296] Solar Designer . "Password security: past, present, future". 2012.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-297] Troy Hunt. "Our password hashing has no clothes". 2012-06-26. < https://www .troyhunt.com/our-password-hashing-
has-no-clothes/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-298] Joshbw . "Should we really use bcrypt/scrypt?". 2012-06-08.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-631] OW ASP. "Password Storage Cheat Sheet".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-632] Thomas Ptacek. "Enough With The Rainbow Tables: What You Need To Know About Secure Password Schemes".
2007-09-10. < http://hashphp.org/hashing.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-633] Robert Graham. "The Importance of Being Canonical". 2009-02-02. < https://blog.erratasec.com/2009/02/importance-
of-being-canonical.html#.ZCbyY7LMJPY >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-634] James McGlinn. "Password Hashing". < https://privacyaustralia.net/phpsec/articles/password-hashing/ >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-635] Jef f Atwood. "Rainbow Hash Cracking". 2007-09-08. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/rainbow-hash-cracking/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-636] Jef f Atwood. "Speed Hashing". 2012-04-06. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/speed-hashing/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-637] "Rainbow table". Wikipedia. 2009-03-03. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow\_table >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "Creating a Salted Hash" Page 302. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Salt V alues",
Page 46. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-03-03
(CWE 1.3, 2009-03-10)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications