3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-202: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Data Queries (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/202.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-202: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Data Queries
Weakness ID: 202
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When trying to keep information confidential, an attacker can often infer some of the information by using statistics.
 Extended Description
In situations where data should not be tied to individual users, but a large number of users should be able to make queries that
"scrub" the identity of users, it may be possible to get information about a user -- e.g., by specifying search terms that are known to be
unique to that user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1230 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Metadata
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Read Application Data
Sensitive information may possibly be leaked through data queries accidentally .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
See the book Translucent Databases for examples.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-41935 Wiki product allows an adversary to discover filenames via a series of queries starting with one letter
and then iteratively extending the match.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
This is a complex topic. See the book Translucent Databases for a good discussion of best practices.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 967 SFP Secondary Cluster: State Disclosure
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-202: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Data Queries (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/202.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The relationship between CWE-202 and CWE-612 needs to be investigated more closely , as they may be dif ferent descriptions of
the same kind of problem. CWE-202 is also being considered for deprecation, as it is not clearly described and may have been
misunderstood by CWE users. It could be argued that this issue is better covered by CAPEC; an attacker can utilize their data-query
privileges to perform this kind of operation, and if the attacker should not be allowed to perform the operation - or if the sensitive data
should not have been made accessible at all - then that is more appropriately classified as a separate CWE related to authorization
(see the parent, CWE-1230 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Accidental leaking of sensitive information through data queries
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names