3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-652: Improper Neutralization of Data within XQuery Expressions ('XQuery Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/652.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-652: Improper Neutralization of Data within XQuery Expressions ('XQuery
Injection')
Weakness ID: 652
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to dynamically construct an XQuery expression used to retrieve data from an XML database, but it
does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes that input. This allows an attacker to control the structure of the query .
 Extended Description
The net ef fect is that the attacker will have control over the information selected from the XML database and may use that ability to
control application flow , modify logic, retrieve unauthorized data, or bypass important checks (e.g. authentication).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 91 XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection)
ChildOf 943 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Data Query Logic
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
An attacker might be able to read sensitive information from the XML database.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
An attacker may pass XQuery expressions embedded in an otherwise standard XML document. The attacker tunnels through the
application entry point to target the resource access layer . The string below is an example of an attacker accessing the accounts.xml
to request the service provider send all user names back. doc(accounts.xml)//user[name='\*'] The attacks that are possible through
XQuery are dif ficult to predict, if the data is not validated prior to executing the XQL.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use parameterized queries. This will help ensure separation between data plane and control plane.
Phase: Implementation
Properly validate user input. Reject data where appropriate, filter where appropriate and escape where appropriate. Make sure
input that will be used in XQL queries is safe in that context.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 929 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A1 - InjectionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-652: Improper Neutralization of Data within XQuery Expressions ('XQuery Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/652.html 2/2MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness is similar to other weaknesses that enable injection style attacks, such as SQL injection, command injection and
LDAP injection. The main dif ference is that the target of attack here is the XML database.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 46 XQuery Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
