3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-499: Serializable Class Containing Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/499.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-499: Serializable Class Containing Sensitive Data
Weakness ID: 499
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code contains a class with sensitive data, but the class does not explicitly deny serialization. The data can be accessed by
serializing the class through another class.
 Extended Description
Serializable classes are ef fectively open classes since data cannot be hidden in them. Classes that do not explicitly deny serialization
can be serialized by any other class, which can then in turn use the data stored inside it.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
CanPrecede 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
an attacker can write out the class to a byte stream, then extract the important data from it.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code creates a new record for a medical patient:
This object does not explicitly deny serialization, allowing an attacker to serialize an instance of this object and gain a patient's name
and Social Security number even though those fields are private.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
In Java, explicitly define final writeObject() to prevent serialization. This is the recommended solution. Define the writeObject()
function to throw an exception explicitly denying serialization.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
class PatientRecord {
private String name;
private String socialSecurityNum;
public Patient(String name,String ssn) {
this.SetName(name);
this.SetSocialSecurityNumber(ssn);
}
}3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-499: Serializable Class Containing Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/499.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Make sure to prevent serialization of your objects.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1148 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 14. Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Information leak through serialization
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER03-J Do not serialize unencrypted, sensitive data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER05-J Do not serialize instances of inner classes
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
