3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-862: Missing Authorization
Weakness ID: 862
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not perform an authorization check when an actor attempts to access a resource or perform an action.
 Extended Description
Assuming a user with a given identity , authorization is the process of determining whether that user can access a given resource,
based on the user's privileges and any permissions or other access-control specifications that apply to the resource.
When access control checks are not applied, users are able to access data or perform actions that they should not be allowed to
perform. This can lead to a wide range of problems, including information exposures, denial of service, and arbitrary code execution.
 Alternate T erms
AuthZ: "AuthZ" is typically used as an abbreviation of "authorization" within the web application security community . It is distinct
from "AuthN" (or , sometimes, "AuthC") which is an abbreviation of "authentication." The use of "Auth" as an
abbreviation is discouraged, since it could be used for either authentication or authorization.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
ParentOf 425 Direct Request ('Forced Browsing')
ParentOf 638 Not Using Complete Mediation
ParentOf 939 Improper Authorization in Handler for Custom URL Scheme
ParentOf 1314 Missing W rite Protection for Parametric Data V alues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Background Details
An access control list (ACL) represents who/what has permissions to a given object. Dif ferent operating systems implement (ACLs) in
different ways. In UNIX, there are three types of permissions: read, write, and execute. Users are divided into three classes for file
access: owner , group owner , and all other users where each class has a separate set of rights. In Windows NT , there are four basic
types of permissions for files: "No access", "Read access", "Change access", and "Full control". Windows NT extends the concept of
three types of users in UNIX to include a list of users and groups along with their associated permissions. A user can create an object
(file) and assign specified permissions to that object.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Authorization weaknesses may arise when a single-user application is ported to a multi-user
environment.
ImplementationA developer may introduce authorization weaknesses because of a lack of understanding about the
underlying technologies. For example, a developer may assume that attackers cannot modify certain
inputs such as headers or cookies.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Often Prevalent)
Database Server (Often Prevalent)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 2/6
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or Directories
An attacker could read sensitive data, either by reading the data directly from a data store that is not
restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to read the data.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Files or Directories
An attacker could modify sensitive data, either by writing the data directly to a data store that is not
restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to write the data.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker could gain privileges by modifying or reading critical data directly , or by accessing
privileged functionality .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This function runs an arbitrary SQL query on a given database, returning the result of the query .
While this code is careful to avoid SQL Injection, the function does not confirm the user sending the query is authorized to do so. An
attacker may be able to obtain sensitive employee information from the database.
Example 2
The following program could be part of a bulletin board system that allows users to send private messages to each other . This
program intends to authenticate the user before deciding whether a private message should be displayed. Assume that
LookupMessageObject() ensures that the $id argument is numeric, constructs a filename based on that id, and reads the message
details from that file. Also assume that the program stores all private messages for all users in the same directory .
While the program properly exits if authentication fails, it does not ensure that the message is addressed to the user . As a result, an
authenticated attacker could provide any arbitrary identifier and read private messages that were intended for other users.
One way to avoid this problem would be to ensure that the "to" field in the message object matches the username of the authenticated
user.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function runEmployeeQuery($dbName, $name){
mysql\_select\_db($dbName,$globalDbHandle) or die("Could not open Database".$dbName);
//Use a prepared statement to avoid CWE-89
$preparedStatement = $globalDbHandle->prepare('SELECT \* FROM employees WHERE name = :name');
$preparedStatement->execute(array(':name' => $name));
return $preparedStatement->fetchAll();
}
/.../
$employeeRecord = runEmployeeQuery('EmployeeDB',$\_GET['EmployeeName']);
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
sub DisplayPrivateMessage {
my($id) = @\_;
my $Message = LookupMessageObject($id);
print "From: " . encodeHTML($Message->{from}) . "  
\n";
print "Subject: " . encodeHTML($Message->{subject}) . "\n";
print "

---

\n";
print "Body: " . encodeHTML($Message->{body}) . "\n";
}
my $q = new CGI;
# For purposes of this example, assume that CWE-309 and
# CWE-523 do not apply.
if (! AuthenticateUser($q->param('username'), $q->param('password'))) {
ExitError("invalid username or password");
}
my $id = $q->param('id');
DisplayPrivateMessage($id);3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 3/6CVE-2022-24730 Go-based continuous deployment product does not check that a user has certain privileges to update
or create an app, allowing adversaries to read sensitive repository information
CVE-2009-3168 Web application does not restrict access to admin scripts, allowing authenticated users to reset
administrative passwords.
CVE-2009-3597 Web application stores database file under the web root with insuf ficient access control ( CWE-219 ),
allowing direct request.
CVE-2009-2282 Terminal server does not check authorization for guest access.
CVE-2008-5027 System monitoring software allows users to bypass authorization by creating custom forms.
CVE-2009-3781 Content management system does not check access permissions for private files, allowing others to
view those files.
CVE-2008-6548 Product does not check the ACL of a page accessed using an "include" directive, allowing attackers to
read unauthorized files.
CVE-2009-2960 Web application does not restrict access to admin scripts, allowing authenticated users to modify
passwords of other users.
CVE-2009-3230 Database server does not use appropriate privileges for certain sensitive operations.
CVE-2009-2213 Gateway uses default "Allow" configuration for its authorization settings.
CVE-2009-0034 Chain: product does not properly interpret a configuration option for a system group, allowing users to
gain privileges.
CVE-2008-6123 Chain: SNMP product does not properly parse a configuration option for which hosts are allowed to
connect, allowing unauthorized IP addresses to connect.
CVE-2008-7109 Chain: reliance on client-side security ( CWE-602 ) allows attackers to bypass authorization using a
custom client.
CVE-2008-3424 Chain: product does not properly handle wildcards in an authorization policy list, allowing unintended
access.
CVE-2005-1036 Chain: Bypass of access restrictions due to improper authorization ( CWE-862 ) of a user results from an
improperly initialized ( CWE-909 ) I/O permission bitmap
CVE-2008-4577 ACL-based protection mechanism treats negative access rights as if they are positive, allowing bypass
of intended restrictions.
CVE-2007-2925 Default ACL list for a DNS server does not set certain ACLs, allowing unauthorized DNS queries.
CVE-2006-6679 Product relies on the X-Forwarded-For HTTP header for authorization, allowing unintended access by
spoofing the header .
CVE-2005-3623 OS kernel does not check for a certain privilege before setting ACLs for files.
CVE-2005-2801 Chain: file-system code performs an incorrect comparison ( CWE-697 ), preventing default ACLs from
being properly applied.
CVE-2001-1155 Chain: product does not properly check the result of a reverse DNS lookup because of operator
precedence ( CWE-783 ), allowing bypass of DNS-based access restrictions.
CVE-2020-17533 Chain: unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) of some functions for policy enforcement leads to
authorization bypass ( CWE-862 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Divide the product into anonymous, normal, privileged, and administrative areas. Reduce the attack surface by carefully
mapping roles with data and functionality . Use role-based access control (RBAC) [ REF-229 ] to enforce the roles at the
appropriate boundaries.
Note that this approach may not protect against horizontal authorization, i.e., it will not protect a user from attacking others with
the same role.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that access control checks are performed related to the business logic. These checks may be dif ferent than the access
control checks that are applied to more generic resources such as files, connections, processes, memory , and database
records. For example, a database may restrict access for medical records to a specific database user , but each record might
only be intended to be accessible to the patient and the patient's doctor [ REF-7 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, consider using authorization frameworks such as the JAAS Authorization Framework [ REF-233 ] and the OW ASP
ESAPI Access Control feature [ REF-45 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
For web applications, make sure that the access control mechanism is enforced correctly at the server side on every page.
Users should not be able to access any unauthorized functionality or information by simply requesting direct access to that page.
One way to do this is to ensure that all pages containing sensitive information are not cached, and that all such pages restrict
access to requests that are accompanied by an active and authenticated session token associated with a user who has the
required permissions to access that page.
Phases: System Configuration; Installation
Use the access control capabilities of your operating system and server environment and define your access control lists
accordingly . Use a "default deny" policy when defining these ACLs.3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 4/6
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis is useful for detecting commonly-used idioms for authorization. A tool may be able to analyze related
configuration files, such as .htaccess in Apache web servers, or detect the usage of commonly-used authorization libraries.
Generally , automated static analysis tools have dif ficulty detecting custom authorization schemes. In addition, the software's
design may include some functionality that is accessible to any user and does not require an authorization check; an automated
technique that detects the absence of authorization may report false positives.
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated dynamic analysis may find many or all possible interfaces that do not require authorization, but manual analysis is
required to determine if the lack of authorization violates business logic.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of custom authorization mechanisms.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules. However , manual ef forts might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints.
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 5/6Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 817 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A8 - Failure to Restrict URL Access
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-1 Req 4.3.3.7
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.1
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-665 Exploitation of Thunderbolt Protection Flaws
 References
[REF-229] NIST . "Role Based Access Control and Role Based Security". < https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/role-based-access-
control >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 4, "Authorization" Page 114; Chapter 6,
"Determining Appropriate Access Control" Page 171. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-231] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 5 - Improper Access Control (Authorization)". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-03-04. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-5-improper-access-control-authorization/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-233] Rahul Bhattacharjee. "Authentication using JAAS". < https://javaranch.com/journal/2008/04/authentication-using-
JAAS.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Authorization", Page 39. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-05-24
(CWE 1.13, 2011-06-01)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-862: Missing Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/862.html 6/6
 Submissions
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications