3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-339: Small Seed Space in PRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/339.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-339: Small Seed Space in PRNG
Weakness ID: 339
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) uses a relatively small seed space, which makes it more susceptible to brute force
attacks.
 Extended Description
PRNGs are entirely deterministic once seeded, so it should be extremely dif ficult to guess the seed. If an attacker can collect the
outputs of a PRNG and then brute force the seed by trying every possibility to see which seed matches the observed output, then the
attacker will know the output of any subsequent calls to the PRNG. A small seed space implies that the attacker will have far fewer
possible values to try to exhaust all possibilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
PeerOf 341 Predictable from Observable State
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code grabs some random bytes and uses them for a seed in a PRNG, in order to generate a new cryptographic key .
Since only 2 bytes are used as a seed, an attacker will only need to guess 2^16 (65,536) values before being able to replicate the
state of the PRNG.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-10908 product generates passwords via org.apache.commons.lang.RandomStringUtils, which uses
java.util.Random internally . This PRNG has only a 48-bit seed.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
# getting 2 bytes of randomness for the seeding the PRNG
seed = os.urandom(2)
random.seed(a=seed)
key = random.getrandbits(128)3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-339: Small Seed Space in PRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/339.html 2/2Use well vetted pseudo-random number generating algorithms with adequate length seeds. Pseudo-random number generators
can produce predictable numbers if the generator is known and the seed can be guessed. A 256-bit seed is a good starting point
for producing a "random enough" number .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems, or use the more recent
FIPS 140-3 [ REF-1192 ] if possible.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry may have a chaining relationship with predictable from observable state ( CWE-341 ).
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Small Seed Space in PRNG
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". Annex C, Approved Random Number Generators. 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1192] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-3: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2019-03-22. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/3/final >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
