3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-824: Access of Uninitialized Pointer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/824.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-824: Access of Uninitialized Pointer
Weakness ID: 824
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product accesses or uses a pointer that has not been initialized.
 Extended Description
If the pointer contains an uninitialized value, then the value might not point to a valid memory location. This could cause the product to
read from or write to unexpected memory locations, leading to a denial of service. If the uninitialized pointer is used as a function call,
then arbitrary functions could be invoked. If an attacker can influence the portion of uninitialized memory that is contained in the
pointer , this weakness could be leveraged to execute code or perform other attacks.
Depending on memory layout, associated memory management behaviors, and product operation, the attacker might be able to
influence the contents of the uninitialized pointer , thus gaining more fine-grained control of the memory location to be accessed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 125 Out-of-bounds Read
CanPrecede 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
If the uninitialized pointer is used in a read operation, an attacker might be able to read sensitive
portions of memory .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If the uninitialized pointer references a memory location that is not accessible to the product, or
points to a location that is "malformed" (such as NULL) or larger than expected by a read or write
operation, then a crash may occur .
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If the uninitialized pointer is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation,
then code execution may be possible.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-0211 chain: unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) leads to free of invalid, uninitialized pointer ( CWE-824 ).
CVE-2009-2768 Pointer in structure is not initialized, leading to NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ) and system
crash.
CVE-2009-1721 Free of an uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2009-1415 Improper handling of invalid signatures leads to free of invalid pointer .
CVE-2009-0846 Invalid encoding triggers free of uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2009-0040 Crafted PNG image leads to free of uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2008-2934 Crafted GIF image leads to free of uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2007-4682 Access of uninitialized pointer might lead to code execution.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-824: Access of Uninitialized Pointer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/824.html 2/2CVE-2007-4639 Step-based manipulation: invocation of debugging function before the primary initialization function
leads to access of an uninitialized pointer and code execution.
CVE-2007-4000 Unchecked return values can lead to a write to an uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2007-2442 zero-length input leads to free of uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2007-1213 Crafted font leads to uninitialized function pointer .
CVE-2006-6143 Uninitialized function pointer in freed memory is invoked
CVE-2006-4175 LDAP server mishandles malformed BER queries, leading to free of uninitialized memory
CVE-2006-0054 Firewall can crash with certain ICMP packets that trigger access of an uninitialized pointer .
CVE-2003-1201 LDAP server does not initialize members of structs, which leads to free of uninitialized pointer if an
LDAP request fails.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Many weaknesses related to pointer dereferences fall under the general term of "memory corruption" or "memory safety ." As of
September 2010, there is no commonly-used terminology that covers the lower-level variants.
Maintenance
There are close relationships between incorrect pointer dereferences and other weaknesses related to buf fer operations. There may
not be suf ficient community agreement regarding these relationships. Further study is needed to determine when these relationships
are chains, composites, perspective/layering, or other types of relationships. As of September 2010, most of the relationships are
being captured as chains.
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "V ariable
Initialization", Page 312. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-09-22
(CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
