3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-653: Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/653.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-653: Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization
Weakness ID: 653
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly compartmentalize or isolate functionality , processes, or resources that require dif ferent privilege levels,
rights, or permissions.
 Extended Description
When a weakness occurs in functionality that is accessible by lower-privileged users, then without strong boundaries, an attack might
extend the scope of the damage to higher-privileged users.
 Alternate T erms
Separation of Privilege: Some people and publications use the term "Separation of Privilege" to describe this weakness, but
this term has dual meanings in current usage. This node conflicts with the original definition of
"Separation of Privilege" by Saltzer and Schroeder; that original definition is more closely associated
with CWE-654 . Because there are multiple interpretations, use of the "Separation of Privilege" term is
discouraged.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
ParentOf 1189 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
ParentOf 1331 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC)
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1212 Authorization Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
The exploitation of a weakness in low-privileged areas of the software can be leveraged to reach
higher-privileged areas without having to overcome any additional obstacles.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Single sign-on technology is intended to make it easier for users to access multiple resources or domains without having to
authenticate each time. While this is highly convenient for the user and attempts to address problems with psychological acceptability ,
it also means that a compromise of a user's credentials can provide immediate access to all other resources or domains.
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-653: Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/653.html 2/3The traditional UNIX privilege model provides root with arbitrary access to all resources, but root is frequently the only user that has
privileges. As a result, administrative tasks require root privileges, even if those tasks are limited to a small area, such as updating
user manpages. Some UNIX flavors have a "bin" user that is the owner of system executables, but since root relies on executables
owned by bin, a compromise of the bin account can be leveraged for root privileges by modifying a bin-owned executable, such as
CVE-2007-4238.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-33096 Improper isolation of shared resource in a network-on-chip leads to denial of service
CVE-2019-6260 Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) device implements Advanced High-performance Bus (AHB)
bridges that do not require authentication for arbitrary read and write access to the BMC's physical
address space from the host, and possibly the network [ REF-1138 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Break up privileges between dif ferent modules, objects, or entities. Minimize the interfaces between modules and require strong
access control between them.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Compare binary / bytecode to application permission manifest
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-653: Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/653.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
There is a close association with CWE-250 (Execution with Unnecessary Privileges). CWE-653 is about providing separate
components for each "privilege"; CWE-250 is about ensuring that each component has the least amount of privileges possible. In
this fashion, compartmentalization becomes one mechanism for reducing privileges.
Terminology
The term "Separation of Privilege" is used in several dif ferent ways in the industry , but they generally combine two closely related
principles: compartmentalization (this node) and using only one factor in a security decision ( CWE-654 ). Proper
compartmentalization implicitly introduces multiple factors into a security decision, but there can be cases in which multiple factors
are required for authentication or other mechanisms that do not involve compartmentalization, such as performing all required
checks on a submitted certificate. It is likely that CWE-653 and CWE-654 will provoke further discussion.
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-535] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Separation of Privilege". 2005-12-06.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1138] Stewart Smith. "CVE-2019-6260: Gaining control of BMC from the host processor". 2019.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names