3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1251: Mirrored Regions with Diﬀerent Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1251.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1251: Mirrored Regions with Different V alues
Weakness ID: 1251
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's architecture mirrors regions without ensuring that their contents always stay in sync.
 Extended Description
Having mirrored regions with dif ferent values might result in the exposure of sensitive information or possibly system compromise.
In the interest of increased performance, one might need to duplicate a resource. A cache memory is a common example of this
concept, which keeps a "local" copy of a data element in the high speed cache memory . Unfortunately , this speed improvement
comes with a downside, since the product needs to ensure that the local copy always mirrors the original copy truthfully . If they get out
of sync, the computational result is no longer true.
During hardware design, memory is not the only item which gets mirrored. There are many other entities that get mirrored, as well:
registers, memory regions, and, in some cases, even whole computational units. For example, within a multi-core processor , if all
memory accesses for each and every core goes through a single Memory-Management Unit (MMU) then the MMU will become a
performance bottleneck. In such cases, duplicating local MMUs that will serve only a subset of the cores rather than all of them may
resolve the performance issue. These local copies are also called "shadow copies" or "mirrored copies."
If the original resource never changed, local duplicate copies getting out of sync would never be an issue. However , the values of the
original copy will sometimes change. When the original copy changes, the mirrored copies must also change, and change fast.
This situation of shadow-copy-possibly-out-of-sync-with-original-copy might occur as a result of multiple scenarios, including the
following:
After the values in the original copy change, due to some reason the original copy does not send the "update" request to its
shadow copies.
After the values in the original copy change, the original copy dutifully sends the "update" request to its shadow copies, but
due to some reason the shadow copy does not "execute" this update request.
After the values in the original copy change, the original copy sends the "update" request to its shadow copies, and the
shadow copy executes this update request faithfully . However , during the small time period when the original copy has "new"
values and the shadow copy is still holding the "old" values, an attacker can exploit the old values. Then it becomes a race
condition between the attacker and the update process of who can reach the target, shadow copy first, and, if the attacker
reaches first, the attacker wins.
The attacker might send a "spoofed" update request to the target shadow copy , pretending that this update request is coming
from the original copy . This spoofed request might cause the targeted shadow copy to update its values to some attacker-
friendly values, while the original copies remain unchanged by the attacker .
Suppose a situation where the original copy has a system of reverting back to its original value if it does not hear back from
all the shadow copies that such copies have successfully completed the update request. In such a case, an attack might
occur as follows: (1) the original copy might send an update request; (2) the shadow copy updates it; (3) the shadow copy
sends back the successful completion message; (4) through a separate issue, the attacker is able to intercept the shadow
copy's completion message. In this case, the original copy thinks that the update did not succeed, hence it reverts to its
original value. Now there is a situation where the original copy has the "old" value, and the shadow copy has the "new" value.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1250 Improper Preservation of Consistency Between Independent Representations of Shared State
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
PeerOf 1312 Missing Protection for Mirrored Regions in On-Chip Fabric Firewall
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating SystemsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1251: Mirrored Regions with Diﬀerent Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1251.html 2/2Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
Authentication
Authorization
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Suppose a processor's Memory Management Unit (MMU) has 5 other shadow MMUs to distribute its workload for its various cores.
Each MMU has the start address and end address of "accessible" memory . Any time this accessible range changes (as per the
processor's boot status), the main MMU sends an update message to all the shadow MMUs.
Suppose the interconnect fabric does not prioritize such "update" packets over other general traf fic packets. This introduces a race
condition. If an attacker can flood the target with enough messages so that some of those attack packets reach the target before the
new access ranges gets updated, then the attacker can leverage this scenario.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Whenever there are multiple, physically dif ferent copies of the same value that might change and the process to update them is
not instantaneous and atomic, it is impossible to assert that the original and shadow copies will always be in sync - there will
always be a time period when they are out of sync. To mitigate the consequential risk, the recommendations essentially are:
Make this out-of-sync time period as small as possible, and
Make the update process as robust as possible.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Issues related to state and cache - creation, preservation, and update - are a significant gap in CWE that is expected to be
addressed in future versions. It has relationships to concurrency and synchronization, incorrect behavior order , and other areas that
already have some coverage in CWE, although the focus has typically been on independent processes on the same operating
system - not on independent systems that are all a part of a larger system-of-systems.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
