3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/601.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')
Weakness ID: 601
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A web application accepts a user-controlled input that specifies a link to an external site, and uses that link in a Redirect. This
simplifies phishing attacks.
 Extended Description
An http parameter may contain a URL value and could cause the web application to redirect the request to the specified URL. By
modifying the URL value to a malicious site, an attacker may successfully launch a phishing scam and steal user credentials.
Because the server name in the modified link is identical to the original site, phishing attempts have a more trustworthy appearance.
Whether this issue poses a vulnerability will be subject to the intended behavior of the application. For example, a search engine
might intentionally provide redirects to arbitrary URLs.
 Alternate T erms
Open Redirect
Cross-site Redirect
Cross-domain Redirect
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 610 Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Phishing is a general term for deceptive attempts to coerce private information from users that will be used for identity theft.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
The user may be redirected to an untrusted page that contains malware which may then
compromise the user's machine. This will expose the user to extensive risk and the user's
interaction with the web server may also be compromised if the malware conducts keylogging or
other attacks that steal credentials, personally identifiable information (PII), or other important data.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/601.html 2/5Access Control
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Other
The user may be subjected to phishing attacks by being redirected to an untrusted page. The
phishing attack may point to an attacker controlled web page that appears to be a trusted web site.
The phishers may then steal the user's credentials and then use these credentials to access the
legitimate web site.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code obtains a URL from the query string and then redirects the user to that URL.
The problem with the above code is that an attacker could use this page as part of a phishing scam by redirecting users to a malicious
site. For example, assume the above code is in the file example.php. An attacker could supply a user with the following link:
The user sees the link pointing to the original trusted site (example.com) and does not realize the redirection that could take place.
Example 2
The following code is a Java servlet that will receive a GET request with a url parameter in the request to redirect the browser to the
address specified in the url parameter . The servlet will retrieve the url parameter value from the request and send a response to
redirect the browser to the url address.
The problem with this Java servlet code is that an attacker could use the RedirectServlet as part of an e-mail phishing scam to
redirect users to a malicious site. An attacker could send an HTML formatted e-mail directing the user to log into their account by
including in the e-mail the following link:
The user may assume that the link is safe since the URL starts with their trusted bank, bank.example.com. However , the user will then
be redirected to the attacker's web site (attacker .example.net) which the attacker may have made to appear very similar to
bank.example.com. The user may then unwittingly enter credentials into the attacker's web page and compromise their bank account.
A Java servlet should never redirect a user to a URL without verifying that the redirect address is a trusted site.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-4206 URL parameter loads the URL into a frame and causes it to appear to be part of a valid page.
CVE-2008-2951 An open redirect vulnerability in the search script in the software allows remote attackers to redirect
users to arbitrary web sites and conduct phishing attacks via a URL as a parameter to the proper
function.
CVE-2008-2052 Open redirect vulnerability in the software allows remote attackers to redirect users to arbitrary web
sites and conduct phishing attacks via a URL in the proper parameter .
CVE-2020-11053 Chain: Go-based Oauth2 reverse proxy can send the authenticated user to another site at the end of
the authentication flow . A redirect URL with HTML-encoded whitespace characters can bypass the
validation ( CWE-1289 ) to redirect to a malicious site ( CWE-601 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$redirect\_url = $\_GET['url'];
header("Location: " . $redirect\_url);
(attack code) 
http://example.com/example.php?url=http://malicious.example.com
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class RedirectServlet extends HttpServlet {
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
String query = request.getQueryString();
if (query.contains("url")) {
String url = request.getParameter("url");
response.sendRedirect(url);
}
}
}
(attack code) Example Language: HTML 
[Click here to log in](http://bank.example.com/redirect?url=http://attacker.example.net)3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/601.html 3/5Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Use a list of approved URLs or domains to be used for redirection.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an intermediate disclaimer page that provides the user with a clear warning that they are leaving the current site. Implement
a long timeout before the redirect occurs, or force the user to click on the link. Be careful to avoid XSS problems ( CWE-79 ) when
generating the disclaimer page.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
For example, ID 1 could map to "/login.asp" and ID 2 could map to "http://www .example.com/". Features such as the ESAPI
AccessReferenceMap [ REF-45 ] provide this capability .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that no externally-supplied requests are honored by requiring that all redirect requests include a unique nonce generated
by the application [ REF-483 ]. Be sure that the nonce is not predictable ( CWE-330 ).
Note: Note that this can be bypassed using XSS ( CWE-79 ).
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your software: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything
read from the network, environment variables, reverse DNS lookups, query results, request headers, URL components, e-mail,
files, filenames, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Remember that such inputs may be
obtained indirectly through API calls.
Many open redirect problems occur because the programmer assumed that certain inputs could not be modified, such as
cookies and hidden form fields.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Firewall
Use an application firewall that can detect attacks against this weakness. It can be beneficial in cases in which the code cannot
be fixed (because it is controlled by a third party), as an emergency prevention measure while more comprehensive software
assurance measures are applied, or to provide defense in depth.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: An application firewall might not cover all possible input vectors. In addition, attack techniques might be available to bypass
the protection mechanism, such as using malformed inputs that can still be processed by the component that receives those
inputs. Depending on functionality , an application firewall might inadvertently reject or modify legitimate requests. Finally , some
manual ef fort may be required for customization.
 Detection Methods
Manual Static Analysis
Since this weakness does not typically appear frequently within a single software package, manual white box techniques may be
able to provide suf ficient code coverage and reduction of false positives if all potentially-vulnerable operations can be assessed
within limited time constraints.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated black box tools that supply URLs to every input may be able to spot Location header modifications, but test case
coverage is a factor , and custom redirects may not be detected.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis tools may not be able to determine whether input influences the beginning of a URL, which is
important for reducing false positives.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/601.html 4/5model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 801 2010 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 819 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A10 - Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards
MemberOf 864 2011 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 938 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A10 - Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/601.html 5/5MemberOf 1382 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Emerging Energy Technologies
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 38 URl Redirector Abuse
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-178 Cross-Site Flashing
 References
[REF-483] Craig A. Shue, Andrew J. Kalafut and Minaxi Gupta. "Exploitable Redirects on the W eb: Identification, Prevalence, and
Defense". < https://www .cprogramming.com/tutorial/exceptions.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-484] Russ McRee. "Open redirect vulnerabilities: definition and prevention". Page 43. Issue 17. (IN)SECURE. 2008-07.
.
[REF-485] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 23 - Open Redirect". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-25.
.
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
