3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-317: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in GUI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/317.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-317: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in GUI
Weakness ID: 317
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in cleartext within the GUI.
 Extended Description
An attacker can often obtain data from a GUI, even if hidden, by using an API to directly access GUI objects such as windows and
menus. Even if the information is encoded in a way that is not human-readable, certain techniques could determine which encoding is
being used, then decode the information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1848 Unencrypted passwords stored in GUI dialog may allow local users to access the passwords.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-317: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in GUI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/317.html 2/2Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Different people use "cleartext" and "plaintext" to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However , within cryptography , these
have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-
encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-
readable (such as base64 encoding).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Storage in GUI
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names