3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1301: Insuﬃcient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1301.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1301: Insufficient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component
Weakness ID: 1301
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's data removal process does not completely delete all data and potentially sensitive information within hardware
components.
 Extended Description
Physical properties of hardware devices, such as remanence of magnetic media, residual charge of ROMs/RAMs, or screen burn-in
may still retain sensitive data after a data removal process has taken place and power is removed.
Recovering data after erasure or overwriting is possible due to a phenomenon called data remanence. For example, if the same value
is written repeatedly to a memory location, the corresponding memory cells can become physically altered to a degree such that even
after the original data is erased that data can still be recovered through physical characterization of the memory cells.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
ParentOf 1330 Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1208 Cross-Cutting Problems
ParentOf 1330 Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-8575 Firmware Data Deletion V ulnerability in which a base station factory reset might not delete all user
information. The impact of this enables a new owner of a used device that has been "factory-default
reset" with a vulnerable firmware version can still retrieve, at least, the previous owner's wireless
network name, and the previous owner's wireless security (such as WP A2) key . This issue was
addressed with improved, data deletion.
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1301: Insuﬃcient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1301.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
Apply blinding or masking techniques to implementations of cryptographic algorithms.
Phase: Implementation
Alter the method of erasure, add protection of media, or destroy the media to protect the data.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
 References
[REF-1117] Paul Kocher , Joshua Jaf fe and Benjamin Jun. "Introduction to dif ferential power analysis and related attacks". 1998.
.
[REF-1118] Dakshi Agrawal, Bruce Archambeault, Josyula R. Rao and Pankaj Rohatgi. "The EM Side-Channel(s)". 2007-08-24.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1119] Daniel Genkin, Adi Shamir and Eran Tromer . "RSA key extraction via low-bandwidth acoustic cryptanalysis". 2014-06-
13. < https://www .iacr.org/archive/crypto2014/86160149/86160149.pdf >.
[REF-1120] Colin O'Flynn. "Power Analysis for Cheapskates". 2013-01-24. < https://media.blackhat.com/eu-
13/briefings/OFlynn/bh-eu-13-for-cheapstakes-oflynn-wp.pdf >.
[REF-1055] Peter Gutmann. "Data Remanence in Semiconductor Devices". 10th USENIX Security Symposium. 2001-08.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-29
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Modifications
