3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-277: Insecure Inherited Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/277.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-277: Insecure Inherited Permissions
Weakness ID: 277
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product defines a set of insecure permissions that are inherited by objects that are created by the program.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 275 Permission Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1841 User's umask is used when creating temp files.
CVE-2002-1786 Insecure umask for core dumps [is the umask preserved or assigned?].
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 946 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource PermissionsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-277: Insecure Inherited Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/277.html 2/2MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Insecure inherited permissions
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
