3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-319: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/319.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-319: Cleartext T ransmission of Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 319
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product transmits sensitive or security-critical data in cleartext in a communication channel that can be snif fed by unauthorized
actors.
 Extended Description
Many communication channels can be "snif fed" (monitored) by adversaries during data transmission. For example, in networking,
packets can traverse many intermediary nodes from the source to the destination, whether across the internet, an internal network,
the cloud, etc. Some actors might have privileged access to a network interface or any link along the channel, such as a router , but
they might not be authorized to collect the underlying data. As a result, network traf fic could be snif fed by adversaries, spilling
security-critical data.
Applicable communication channels are not limited to software products. Applicable channels include hardware-specific technologies
such as internal hardware networks and external debug channels, supporting remote JT AG debugging. When mitigations are not
applied to combat adversaries within the product's threat model, this weakness significantly lowers the dif ficulty of exploitation by such
adversaries.
When full communications are recorded or logged, such as with a packet dump, an adversary could attempt to obtain the dump long
after the transmission has occurred and try to "snif f" the cleartext from the recorded communications in the dump itself. Even if the
information is encoded in a way that is not human-readable, certain techniques could determine which encoding is being used, then
decode the information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 311 Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data
ParentOf 5 J2EE Misconfiguration: Data Transmission Without Encryption
ParentOf 614 Sensitive Cookie in HTTPS Session Without 'Secure' Attribute
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Architecture and DesignFor hardware, this may be introduced when design does not plan for an attacker having physical access
while a legitimate user is remotely operating the device.
Operation
System Configuration
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-319: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/319.html 2/5Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Test/Debug Hardware (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Files or Directories
Anyone can read the information by gaining access to the channel being used for communication.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to establish a connection to a site to communicate sensitive information.
Though a connection is successfully made, the connection is unencrypted and it is possible that all sensitive data sent to or received
from the server will be read by unintended actors.
Example 2
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used cleartext transmission of sensitive information in their OT products.
Example 3
A TAP accessible register is read/written by a JT AG based tool, for internal use by authorized users. However , an adversary can
connect a probing device and collect the values from the unencrypted channel connecting the JT AG interface to the authorized user , if
no additional protections are employed.
Example 4
The following Azure CLI command lists the properties of a particular storage account:
The JSON result might be:
The enableHttpsT rafficOnly value is set to false, because the default setting for Secure transfer is set to Disabled. This allows cloud
storage resources to successfully connect and transfer data without the use of encryption (e.g., HTTP , SMB 2.1, SMB 3.0, etc.).
Azure's storage accounts can be configured to only accept requests from secure connections made over HTTPS. The secure transfer
setting can be enabled using Azure's Portal (GUI) or programmatically by setting the enableHttpsT rafficOnly property to True on the
storage account, such as:
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
URL u = new URL("http://www.secret.example.org/");
HttpURLConnection hu = (HttpURLConnection) u.openConnection();
hu.setRequestMethod("PUT");
hu.connect();
OutputStream os = hu.getOutputStream();
hu.disconnect();
}
catch (IOException e) {
//...
}
(informative) Example Language: Shell 
az storage account show -g {ResourceGroupName} -n {StorageAccountName}
(bad code) Example Language: JSON 
{
"name": "{StorageAccountName}",
"enableHttpsTrafficOnly": false,
"type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts"
}
(good code) Example Language: Shell 
az storage account update -g {ResourceGroupName} -n {StorageAccountName} --https-only true3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-319: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/319.html 3/5The change can be confirmed from the result by verifying that the enableHttpsT rafficOnly value is true:
Note: to enable secure transfer using Azure's Portal instead of the command line:
1. Open the Create storage account pane in the Azure portal.
2. In the Advanced page, select the Enable secure transfer checkbox.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29519 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) sends sensitive information in plaintext, including passwords and
session tokens.
CVE-2022-30312 Building Controller uses a protocol that transmits authentication credentials in plaintext.
CVE-2022-31204 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) sends password in plaintext.
CVE-2002-1949 Passwords transmitted in cleartext.
CVE-2008-4122 Chain: Use of HTTPS cookie without "secure" flag causes it to be transmitted across unencrypted
HTTP .
CVE-2008-3289 Product sends password hash in cleartext in violation of intended policy .
CVE-2008-4390 Remote management feature sends sensitive information including passwords in cleartext.
CVE-2007-5626 Backup routine sends password in cleartext in email.
CVE-2004-1852 Product transmits Blowfish encryption key in cleartext.
CVE-2008-0374 Printer sends configuration information, including administrative password, in cleartext.
CVE-2007-4961 Chain: cleartext transmission of the MD5 hash of password enables attacks against a server that is
susceptible to replay ( CWE-294 ).
CVE-2007-4786 Product sends passwords in cleartext to a log server .
CVE-2005-3140 Product sends file with cleartext passwords in e-mail message intended for diagnostic purposes.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Before transmitting, encrypt the data using reliable, confidentiality-protecting cryptographic protocols.
Phase: Implementation
When using web applications with SSL, use SSL for the entire session from login to logout, not just for the initial login page.
Phase: Implementation
When designing hardware platforms, ensure that approved encryption algorithms (such as those recommended by NIST) protect
paths from security critical data to trusted user applications.
Phase: T esting
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
Phase: Operation
Configure servers to use encrypted channels for communication, which may include SSL or other secure protocols.
 Detection Methods
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process, trigger the feature that sends the data, and look for the presence or absence of common
cryptographic functions in the call tree. Monitor the network and determine if the data packets contain readable commands.
Tools exist for detecting if certain encodings are in use. If the traf fic contains high entropy , this might indicate the usage of
encryption.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)(good code) Example Language: JSON 
{
"name": "{StorageAccountName}",
"enableHttpsTrafficOnly": true,
"type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts"
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-319: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/319.html 4/5Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 751 2009 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 818 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A9 - Insuf ficient Transport Layer Protection
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 934 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A6 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1148 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 14. Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Transmission of Sensitive Information
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC06-J Do not rely on the default automatic signature verification provided by
URLClassLoader and java.util.jar
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER02-J Sign then seal sensitive objects before sending them outside a trust
boundary
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 4.1B
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-102 Session Sidejacking
CAPEC-117 Interception
CAPEC-383 Harvesting Information via API Event Monitoring
CAPEC-477 Signature Spoofing by Mixing Signed and Unsigned Content
CAPEC-65 Sniff Application Code
 References
[REF-271] OW ASP. "Top 10 2007-Insecure Communications". 2007. < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/T op\_10\_2007-A9 >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "Protecting Secret Data" Page 299. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 22: Failing to Protect
Network Traffic." Page 337. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-172] Chris W ysopal. "Mobile App Top 10 List". 2010-12-13. < https://www .veracode.com/blog/2010/12/mobile-app-top-10-
list>. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-319: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/319.html 5/5[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1307] Center for Internet Security . "CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark version 1.5.0". Sections 3.1 and 3.10.
2022-08-16. < https://www .cisecurity .org/benchmark/azure >. URL validated: 2023-01-19 .
[REF-1309] Microsoft. "Require secure transfer to ensure secure connections". 2022-07-24. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/storage/common/storage-require-secure-transfer >. URL validated: 2023-01-24 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24 Accellera IP Security Assurance (IPSA) W orking Group Accellera Systems Initiative
Submitted original contents of CWE-1324 and reviewed its integration into this entry.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names