3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1232: Improper Lock Behavior After Power State Transition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1232.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1232: Improper Lock Behavior After Power State T ransition
Weakness ID: 1232
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Register lock bit protection disables changes to system configuration once the bit is set. Some of the protected registers or lock bits
become programmable after power state transitions (e.g., Entry and wake from low power sleep modes) causing the system
configuration to be changeable.
 Extended Description
Devices may allow device configuration controls which need to be programmed after device power reset via a trusted firmware or
software module (commonly set by BIOS/bootloader) and then locked from any further modification. This action is commonly
implemented using a programmable lock bit, which, when set, disables writes to a protected set of registers or address regions.
After a power state transition, the lock bit is set to unlocked. Some common weaknesses that can exist in such a protection scheme
are that the lock gets cleared, the values of the protected registers get reset, or the lock become programmable.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify MemoryHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the memory configuration settings of a system that uses DDR3 DRAM memory . Protecting the DRAM memory configuration
from modification by software is required to ensure that system memory access control protections cannot be bypassed. This can be
done by using lock bit protection that locks all of the memory configuration registers. The memory configuration lock can be set by the
BIOS during the boot process.
If such a system also supports a rapid power on mode like hibernate, the DRAM data must be saved to a disk before power is
removed and restored back to the DRAM once the system powers back up and before the OS resumes operation after returning from
hibernate.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1232: Improper Lock Behavior After Power State Transition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1232.html 2/2To support the hibernate transition back to the operating state, the DRAM memory configuration must be reprogrammed even though
it was locked previously . As the hibernate resume does a partial reboot, the memory configuration could be altered before the memory
lock is set. Functionally the hibernate resume flow requires a bypass of the lock-based protection. The memory configuration must be
securely stored and restored by trusted system firmware. Lock settings and system configuration must be restored to the same state it
was in before the device entered into the hibernate mode.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; T esting
Security Lock bit protections should be reviewed for behavior across supported power state transitions.
Security lock programming flow and lock properties should be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing including
testing across power transitions.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-166 Force the System to Reset V alues
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-01-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
