3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1037: Processor Optimization Removal or Modiﬁcation of Security-critical Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1037.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1037: Processor Optimization Removal or Modification of Security-critical
Code
Weakness ID: 1037
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The developer builds a security-critical protection mechanism into the software, but the processor optimizes the execution of the
program such that the mechanism is removed or modified.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1038 Insecure Automated Optimizations
PeerOf 1264 Hardware Logic with Insecure De-Synchronization between Control and Data Channels
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOptimizations built into the design of the processor can have unintended consequences during the
execution of an application.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Rarely Prevalent)
Technologies
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
A successful exploitation of this weakness will change the order of an application's execution and will likely
be used to bypass specific protection mechanisms. This bypass can be exploited further to potentially read
data that should otherwise be unaccessible.High
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-5715 Intel, ARM, and AMD processor optimizations related to speculative execution and branch prediction
cause access control checks to be bypassed when placing data into the cache. Often known as
"Spectre".
CVE-2017-5753 Intel, ARM, and AMD processor optimizations related to speculative execution and branch prediction
cause access control checks to be bypassed when placing data into the cache. Often known as
"Spectre".
CVE-2017-5754 Intel processor optimizations related to speculative execution cause access control checks to be
bypassed when placing data into the cache. Often known as "Meltdown".
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1037: Processor Optimization Removal or Modiﬁcation of Security-critical Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1037.html 2/2Primary(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This weakness does not depend on other weaknesses and is the result of choices made by the processor in
executing the specified application.
 Detection Methods
White Box
In theory this weakness can be detected through the use of white box testing techniques where specifically crafted test cases
are used in conjunction with debuggers to verify the order of statements being executed.
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
Note: Although the mentioned detection method is theoretically possible, the use of speculative execution is a preferred way of
increasing processor performance. The reality is that a large number of statements are executed out of order , and determining if
any of them break an access control property would be extremely opportunistic.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are closely analyzing this entry and others to improve CWE's coverage of
transient execution weaknesses, which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks. Additional investigation may
include other weaknesses related to microarchitectural state. As a result, this entry might change significantly in CWE 4.10.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-663 Exploitation of Transient Instruction Execution
 References
[REF-11] Paul Kocher , Daniel Genkin, Daniel Gruss, W erner Haas, Mike Hamburg, Moritz Lipp, Stefan Mangard, Thomas
Prescher , Michael Schwarz and Yuval Yarom. "Spectre Attacks: Exploiting Speculative Execution". 2018-01-03.
.
[REF-12] Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Gruss, Thomas Prescher , Werner Haas, Stefan Mangard, Paul Kocher , Daniel
Genkin, Yuval Yarom and Mike Hamburg. "Meltdown". 2018-01-03. < https://arxiv .org/abs/1801.01207 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-03-07
(CWE 3.1, 2018-03-29)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
