3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-623: Unsafe ActiveX Control Marked Safe For Scripting (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/623.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-623: Unsafe ActiveX Control Marked Safe For Scripting
Weakness ID: 623
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An ActiveX control is intended for restricted use, but it has been marked as safe-for-scripting.
 Extended Description
This might allow attackers to use dangerous functionality via a web page that accesses the control, which can lead to dif ferent
resultant vulnerabilities, depending on the control's behavior .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 267 Privilege Defined With Unsafe Actions
PeerOf 618 Exposed Unsafe ActiveX Method
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0617 control allows attackers to add malicious email addresses to bypass spam limits
CVE-2007-0219 web browser uses certain COM objects as ActiveX
CVE-2006-6510 kiosk allows bypass to read files
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
During development, do not mark it as safe for scripting.
Phase: System Configuration
After distribution, you can set the kill bit for the control so that it is not accessible from Internet Explorer .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 978 SFP Secondary Cluster: Implementation
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-623: Unsafe ActiveX Control Marked Safe For Scripting (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/623.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-503] Microsoft. "Developing Secure ActiveX Controls". 2005-04-13. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-
versions//ms533046(v=vs.85)?redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-510] Microsoft. "How to stop an ActiveX control from running in Internet Explorer". < https://support.microsoft.com/en-
us/help/240797/how-to-stop-an-activex-control-from-running-in-internet-explorer >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 16, "What ActiveX Components Are Safe for
Initialization and Safe for Scripting?" Page 510. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 12, "ActiveX
Security", Page 749. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications