3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-483: Incorrect Block Delimitation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/483.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-483: Incorrect Block Delimitation
Weakness ID: 483
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code does not explicitly delimit a block that is intended to contain 2 or more statements, creating a logic error .
 Extended Description
In some languages, braces (or other delimiters) are optional for blocks. When the delimiter is omitted, it is possible to insert a logic
error in which a statement is thought to be in a block but is not. In some cases, the logic error can have security implications.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 670 Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
This is a general logic error which will often lead to obviously-incorrect behaviors that are quickly
noticed and fixed. In lightly tested or untested code, this error may be introduced it into a production
environment and provide additional attack vectors by creating a control flow path leading to an
unexpected state in the application. The consequences will depend on the types of behaviors that
are being incorrectly executed.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, the programmer has indented the statements to call Do\_X() and Do\_Y(), as if the intention is that these functions are
only called when the condition is true. However , because there are no braces to signify the block, Do\_Y() will always be executed,
even if the condition is false.
This might not be what the programmer intended. When the condition is critical for security , such as in making a security decision or
detecting a critical error , this may produce a vulnerability .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (condition==true)
Do\_X();
Do\_Y();3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-483: Incorrect Block Delimitation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/483.html 2/3Example 2
In this example, the programmer has indented the Do\_Y() statement as if the intention is that the function should be associated with
the preceding conditional and should only be called when the condition is true. However , because Do\_X() was called on the same line
as the conditional and there are no braces to signify the block, Do\_Y() will always be executed, even if the condition is false.
This might not be what the programmer intended. When the condition is critical for security , such as in making a security decision or
detecting a critical error , this may produce a vulnerability .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2014-1266 incorrect indentation of "goto" statement makes it more dif ficult to detect an incorrect goto (Apple's
"goto fail")
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Always use explicit block delimitation and use static-analysis technologies to enforce this practice.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Incorrect block delimitation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (condition==true) Do\_X();
Do\_Y();3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-483: Incorrect Block Delimitation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/483.html 3/3
 Submissions
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2010-04-28 Michael Koo and Paul Black NIST
Correction to Demonstrative Examples
 Modifications