3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 1/8
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-120: Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buffer Overflow')
Weakness ID: 120
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product copies an input buf fer to an output buf fer without verifying that the size of the input buf fer is less than the size of the
output buf fer, leading to a buf fer overflow .
 Extended Description
A buffer overflow condition exists when a product attempts to put more data in a buf fer than it can hold, or when it attempts to put data
in a memory area outside of the boundaries of a buf fer. The simplest type of error , and the most common cause of buf fer overflows, is
the "classic" case in which the product copies the buf fer without restricting how much is copied. Other variants exist, but the existence
of a classic overflow strongly suggests that the programmer is not considering even the most basic of security protections.
 Alternate T erms
Classic Buffer Overflow: This term was frequently used by vulnerability researchers during approximately 1995 to 2005 to
differentiate buf fer copies without length checks (which had been known about for decades) from
other emerging weaknesses that still involved invalid accesses of buf fers, as vulnerability
researchers began to develop advanced exploitation techniques.
Unbounded T ransfer
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
ParentOf 785 Use of Path Manipulation Function without Maximum-sized Buf fer
CanFollow 170 Improper Null Termination
CanFollow 231 Improper Handling of Extra V alues
CanFollow 416 Use After Free
CanFollow 456 Missing Initialization of a V ariable
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Assembly (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 2/8AvailabilityBuffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of
the product's implicit security policy . This can often be used to subvert any other security service.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
Buffer overflows generally lead to crashes. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are possible,
including putting the product into an infinite loop.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code asks the user to enter their last name and then attempts to store the value entered in the last\_name array .
The problem with the code above is that it does not restrict or limit the size of the name entered by the user . If the user enters
"Very\_very\_long\_last\_name" which is 24 characters long, then a buf fer overflow will occur since the array can only hold 20 characters
total.
Example 2
The following code attempts to create a local copy of a buf fer to perform some manipulations to the data.
However , the programmer does not ensure that the size of the data pointed to by string will fit in the local buf fer and copies the data
with the potentially dangerous strcpy() function. This may result in a buf fer overflow condition if an attacker can influence the contents
of the string parameter .
Example 3
The code below calls the gets() function to read in data from the command line.
However , gets() is inherently unsafe, because it copies all input from STDIN to the buf fer without checking size. This allows the user
to provide a string that is larger than the buf fer size, resulting in an overflow condition.
Example 4
In the following example, a server accepts connections from a client and processes the client request. After accepting a client
connection, the program will obtain client information using the gethostbyaddr method, copy the hostname of the client that connected
to a local variable and output the hostname of the client to a log file.(bad code) Example Language: C 
char last\_name[20];
printf ("Enter your last name: ");
scanf ("%s", last\_name);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void manipulate\_string(char \* string){
char buf[24];
strcpy(buf, string);
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char buf[24];
printf("Please enter your name and press \n");
gets(buf);
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
struct hostent \*clienthp;
char hostname[MAX\_LEN];
// create server socket, bind to server address and listen on socket
...
// accept client connections and process requests
int count = 0;
for (count = 0; count < MAX\_CONNECTIONS; count++) {
int clientlen = sizeof(struct sockaddr\_in);
int clientsocket = accept(serversocket, (struct sockaddr \*)&clientaddr, &clientlen);
if (clientsocket >= 0) {
clienthp = gethostbyaddr((char\*) &clientaddr.sin\_addr.s\_addr, sizeof(clientaddr.sin\_addr.s\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, clienthp->h\_name);
logOutput("Accepted client connection from host ", hostname);3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 3/8However , the hostname of the client that connected may be longer than the allocated size for the local hostname variable. This will
result in a buf fer overflow when copying the client hostname to the local variable using the strcpy method.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-1094 buffer overflow using command with long argument
CVE-1999-0046 buffer overflow in local program using long environment variable
CVE-2002-1337 buffer overflow in comment characters, when product increments a counter for a ">" but does not
decrement for "<"
CVE-2003-0595 By replacing a valid cookie value with an extremely long string of characters, an attacker may overflow
the application's buf fers.
CVE-2001-0191 By replacing a valid cookie value with an extremely long string of characters, an attacker may overflow
the application's buf fers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, many languages that perform their own memory management, such as Java and Perl, are not subject to buf fer
overflows. Other languages, such as Ada and C#, typically provide overflow protection, but the protection can be disabled by the
programmer .
Be wary that a language's interface to native code may still be subject to overflows, even if the language itself is theoretically
safe.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Examples include the Safe C String Library (SafeStr) by Messier and V iega [ REF-57 ], and the Strsafe.h library from Microsoft
[REF-56 ]. These libraries provide safer versions of overflow-prone string-handling functions.
Note: This is not a complete solution, since many buf fer overflows are not related to strings.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Consider adhering to the following rules when allocating and managing an application's memory:
Double check that your buf fer is as large as you specify .
When using functions that accept a number of bytes to copy , such as strncpy(), be aware that if the destination buf fer
size is equal to the source buf fer size, it may not NULL-terminate the string.
Check buf fer boundaries if accessing the buf fer in a loop and make sure there is no danger of writing past the allocated
space.
If necessary , truncate all input strings to a reasonable length before passing them to the copy and concatenation
functions.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.// process client request
...
close(clientsocket);
}
}
close(serversocket);
...3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 4/8When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phases: Build and Compilation; Operation
Most mitigating technologies at the compiler or OS level to date address only a subset of buf fer overflow problems and rarely
provide complete protection against even that subset. It is good practice to implement strategies to increase the workload of an
attacker , such as leaving the attacker to guess an unknown value that changes every program execution.
Phase: Implementation
Replace unbounded copy functions with analogous functions that support length arguments, such as strcpy with strncpy . Create
these if they are not available.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: This approach is still susceptible to calculation errors, including issues such as of f-by-one errors ( CWE-193 ) and incorrectly
calculating buf fer lengths ( CWE-131 ).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 5/8by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting out-of-bounds memory
operations. This can make it dif ficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an analysis
tool might report buf fer overflows that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run with
setuid or other special privileges.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Detection techniques for buf fer-related errors are more mature than for most other weakness types.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Manual Analysis
Manual analysis can be useful for finding this weakness, but it might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints. This becomes dif ficult for weaknesses that must be considered for all inputs, since the attack surface can be too
large.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 6/8Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Memory Management
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 726 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A5 - Buf fer Overflows
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 875 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 07 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
There are some indications that this CWE ID might be misused and selected simply because it mentions "buf fer overflow" - an
increasingly vague term. This CWE entry is only appropriate for "Buf fer Copy" operations (not buf fer reads), in which where there
is no "Checking [the] Size of Input", and (by implication of the copy) writing past the end of the buf fer.
Comments:
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 7/8If the vulnerability being analyzed involves out-of-bounds reads, then consider CWE-125 or descendants. For root cause analysis:
if there is any input validation, consider children of CWE-20 such as CWE-1284 . If there is a calculation error for buf fer sizes,
consider CWE-131 or similar .
 Notes
Relationship
At the code level, stack-based and heap-based overflows do not dif fer significantly , so there usually is not a need to distinguish
them. From the attacker perspective, they can be quite dif ferent, since dif ferent techniques are required to exploit them.
Terminology
Many issues that are now called "buf fer overflows" are substantively dif ferent than the "classic" overflow , including entirely dif ferent
bug types that rely on overflow exploit techniques, such as integer signedness errors, integer overflows, and format string bugs. This
imprecise terminology can make it dif ficult to determine which variant is being reported.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unbounded Transfer ('classic overflow')
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Buffer Overflow
CLASP Buffer overflow
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A1 CWE More
SpecificUnvalidated Input
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A5 CWE More
SpecificBuffer Overflows
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C Exact Guarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
WASC 7 Buffer Overflow
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-120
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-120
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-10 Buffer Overflow via Environment V ariables
CAPEC-100 Overflow Buf fers
CAPEC-14 Client-side Injection-induced Buf fer Overflow
CAPEC-24 Filter Failure through Buf fer Overflow
CAPEC-42 MIME Conversion
CAPEC-44 Overflow Binary Resource File
CAPEC-45 Buffer Overflow via Symbolic Links
CAPEC-46 Overflow V ariables and Tags
CAPEC-47 Buffer Overflow via Parameter Expansion
CAPEC-67 String Format Overflow in syslog()
CAPEC-8 Buffer Overflow in an API Call
CAPEC-9 Buffer Overflow in Local Command-Line Utilities
CAPEC-92 Forced Integer Overflow
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Public Enemy #1: The Buf fer Overrun" Page
127. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-56] Microsoft. "Using the Strsafe.h Functions". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/menurc/strsafe-ovw?
redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-57] Matt Messier and John V iega. "Safe C String Library v1.0.3". < http://www .gnu-darwin.org/www001/ports-1.5a-
CURRENT/devel/safestr/work/safestr-1.0.3/doc/safestr .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-59] Arjan van de V en. "Limiting buf fer overflows with ExecShield". < https://archive.is/saAFo >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-74] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 3 - Classic Buf fer Overflow". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-02.
.
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-120: Buﬀer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buﬀer Overﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/120.html 8/8[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Nonexecutable
Stack", Page 76. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Protection
Mechanisms", Page 189. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "C String
Handling", Page 388. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-120.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-120. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names