3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-689: Permission Race Condition During Resource Copy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/689.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-689: Permission Race Condition During Resource Copy
Weakness ID: 689
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, while copying or cloning a resource, does not set the resource's permissions or access control until the copy is
complete, leaving the resource exposed to other spheres while the copy is taking place.
 Composite Components
Nature Type ID Name
Requires 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condition')
Requires 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationCommon examples occur in file archive extraction, in which the product begins the extraction with insecure
default permissions, then only sets the final permissions (as specified in the archive) once the copy is complete.
The larger the archive, the larger the timing window for the race condition.
This weakness has also occurred in some operating system utilities that perform copies of deeply nested
directories containing a large number of files.
This weakness can occur in any type of functionality that involves copying objects or resources in a multi-user
environment, including at the application level. For example, a document management system might allow a
user to copy a private document, but if it does not set the new copy to be private as soon as the copy begins,
then other users might be able to view the document while the copy is still taking place.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0760 Archive extractor decompresses files with world-readable permissions, then later sets permissions to
what the archive specified.
CVE-2005-2174 Product inserts a new object into database before setting the object's permissions, introducing a race
condition.
CVE-2006-5214 Error file has weak permissions before a chmod is performed.
CVE-2005-2475 Archive permissions issue using hard link.
CVE-2003-0265 Database product creates files world-writable before initializing the setuid bits, leading to modification
of executables.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
 (Structure: Composite)
ALLOWED
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-689: Permission Race Condition During Resource Copy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/689.html 2/2Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This is a Composite of multiple weaknesses that must all occur simultaneously .
Comments:
While composites are supported in CWE, they have not been a focus of research. There is a chance that future research or CWE
scope clarifications will change or deprecate them. Perform root-cause analysis to determine which weaknesses allow this issue
to occur , and map to those weaknesses. For example, the delayed permission-setting in the resource copy might be intended
functionality , but creation in a location with insecure permissions might not.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied. It seems likely that this weakness could occur in any situation in which a complex or large copy operation occurs,
when the resource can be made available to other spheres as soon as it is created, but before its initialization is complete.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-27 Leveraging Race Conditions via Symbolic Links
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Permission
Races", Page 533. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
