3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
Weakness ID: 400
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly control the allocation and maintenance of a limited resource, thereby enabling an actor to influence the
amount of resources consumed, eventually leading to the exhaustion of available resources.
 Extended Description
Limited resources include memory , file system storage, database connection pool entries, and CPU. If an attacker can trigger the
allocation of these limited resources, but the number or size of the resources is not controlled, then the attacker could cause a denial
of service that consumes all available resources. This would prevent valid users from accessing the product, and it could potentially
have an impact on the surrounding environment. For example, a memory exhaustion attack against an application could slow down
the application as well as its host operating system.
There are at least three distinct scenarios which can commonly lead to resource exhaustion:
Lack of throttling for the number of allocated resources
Losing all references to a resource before reaching the shutdown stage
Not closing/returning a resource after processing
Resource exhaustion problems are often result due to an incorrect implementation of the following situations:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances.
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for releasing the resource.
 Alternate T erms
Resource Exhaustion
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
ParentOf 405 Asymmetric Resource Consumption (Amplification)
ParentOf 770 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
ParentOf 771 Missing Reference to Active Allocated Resource
ParentOf 779 Logging of Excessive Data
ParentOf 920 Improper Restriction of Power Consumption
ParentOf 1235 Incorrect Use of Autoboxing and Unboxing for Performance Critical Operations
ParentOf 1246 Improper W rite Handling in Limited-write Non-V olatile Memories
CanFollow 410 Insuf ficient Resource Pool
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability Technical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory); DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 2/7The most common result of resource exhaustion is denial of service. The product may slow down,
crash due to unhandled errors, or lock out legitimate users.
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
In some cases it may be possible to force the product to "fail open" in the event of resource
exhaustion. The state of the product -- and possibly the security functionality - may then be
compromised.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
There are no limits to runnables. Potentially an attacker could cause resource problems very quickly .
Example 2
This code allocates a socket and forks each time it receives a new connection.
The program does not track how many connections have been made, and it does not limit the number of connections. Because
forking is a relatively expensive operation, an attacker would be able to cause the system to run out of CPU, processes, or memory by
making a large number of connections. Alternatively , an attacker could consume all available connections, preventing others from
accessing the system remotely .
Example 3
In the following example a server socket connection is used to accept a request to store data on the local file system using a specified
filename. The method openSocketConnection establishes a server socket to accept requests from a client. When a client establishes
a connection to this service the getNextMessage method is first used to retrieve from the socket the name of the file to store the data,(bad code) Example Language: Java 
class Worker implements Executor {
...
public void execute(Runnable r) {
try {
...
}
catch (InterruptedException ie) {
// postpone response
Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
}
}
public Worker(Channel ch, int nworkers) {
...
}
protected void activate() {
Runnable loop = new Runnable() {
public void run() {
try {
for (;;) {
Runnable r = ...;
r.run();
}
}
catch (InterruptedException ie) {
...
}
}
};
new Thread(loop).start();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
sock=socket(AF\_INET, SOCK\_STREAM, 0);
while (1) {
newsock=accept(sock, ...);
printf("A connection has been accepted\n");
pid = fork();
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 3/7the openFileT oWrite method will validate the filename and open a file to write to on the local file system. The getNextMessage is then
used within a while loop to continuously read data from the socket and output the data to the file until there is no longer any data from
the socket.
This example creates a situation where data can be dumped to a file on the local file system without any limits on the size of the file.
This could potentially exhaust file or disk resources and/or limit other clients' ability to access the service.
Example 4
In the following example, the processMessage method receives a two dimensional character array containing the message to be
processed. The two-dimensional character array contains the length of the message in the first character array and the message body
in the second character array . The getMessageLength method retrieves the integer value of the length from the first character array .
After validating that the message length is greater than zero, the body character array pointer points to the start of the second
character array of the two-dimensional character array and memory is allocated for the new body character array .
This example creates a situation where the length of the body character array can be very large and will consume excessive memory ,
exhausting system resources. This can be avoided by restricting the length of the second character array with a maximum length
check
Also, consider changing the type from 'int' to 'unsigned int', so that you are always guaranteed that the number is positive. This might
not be possible if the protocol specifically requires allowing negative values, or if you cannot control the return value from
getMessageLength(), but it could simplify the check to ensure the input is positive, and eliminate other errors such as signed-to-
unsigned conversion errors ( CWE-195 ) that may occur elsewhere in the code.
Example 5
In the following example, a server object creates a server socket and accepts client connections to the socket. For every client
connection to the socket a separate thread object is generated using the ClientSocketThread class that handles request made by the
client through the socket.(bad code) Example Language: C 
int writeDataFromSocketToFile(char \*host, int port)
{
char filename[FILENAME\_SIZE];
char buffer[BUFFER\_SIZE];
int socket = openSocketConnection(host, port);
if (socket < 0) {
printf("Unable to open socket connection");
return(FAIL);
}
if (getNextMessage(socket, filename, FILENAME\_SIZE) > 0) {
if (openFileToWrite(filename) > 0) {
while (getNextMessage(socket, buffer, BUFFER\_SIZE) > 0){
if (!(writeToFile(buffer) > 0))
break;
}
}
closeFile();
}
closeSocket(socket);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
/\* process message accepts a two-dimensional character array of the form [length][body] containing the message to be processed \*/
int processMessage(char \*\*message)
{
char \*body;
int length = getMessageLength(message[0]);
if (length > 0) {
body = &message[1][0];
processMessageBody(body);
return(SUCCESS);
}
else {
printf("Unable to process message; invalid message length");
return(FAIL);
}
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
unsigned int length = getMessageLength(message[0]);
if ((length > 0) && (length < MAX\_LENGTH)) {...}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 4/7In this example there is no limit to the number of client connections and client threads that are created. Allowing an unlimited number
of client connections and threads could potentially overwhelm the system and system resources.
The server should limit the number of client connections and the client threads that are created. This can be easily done by creating a
thread pool object that limits the number of threads that are generated.
Example 6
In the following example, the serve function receives an http request and an http response writer . It reads the entire request body .
Because ReadAll is defined to read from src until EOF , it does not treat an EOF from Read as an error to be reported. This example
creates a situation where the length of the body supplied can be very large and will consume excessive memory , exhausting system
resources. This can be avoided by ensuring the body does not exceed a predetermined length of bytes.
MaxBytesReader prevents clients from accidentally or maliciously sending a large request and wasting server resources. If possible,
the code could be changed to tell ResponseW riter to close the connection after the limit has been reached.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void acceptConnections() {
try {
ServerSocket serverSocket = new ServerSocket(SERVER\_PORT);
int counter = 0;
boolean hasConnections = true;
while (hasConnections) {
Socket client = serverSocket.accept();
Thread t = new Thread(new ClientSocketThread(client));
t.setName(client.getInetAddress().getHostName() + ":" + counter++);
t.start();
}
serverSocket.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public static final int SERVER\_PORT = 4444;
public static final int MAX\_CONNECTIONS = 10;
...
public void acceptConnections() {
try {
ServerSocket serverSocket = new ServerSocket(SERVER\_PORT);
int counter = 0;
boolean hasConnections = true;
while (hasConnections) {
hasConnections = checkForMoreConnections();
Socket client = serverSocket.accept();
Thread t = new Thread(new ClientSocketThread(client));
t.setName(client.getInetAddress().getHostName() + ":" + counter++);
ExecutorService pool = Executors.newFixedThreadPool(MAX\_CONNECTIONS);
pool.execute(t);
}
serverSocket.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Go 
func serve(w http.ResponseWriter, r \*http.Request) {
var body []byte
if r.Body != nil {
if data, err := io.ReadAll(r.Body); err == nil {
body = data
}
}
}
(good code) Example Language: Go 
func serve(w http.ResponseWriter, r \*http.Request) {
var body []byte
const MaxRespBodyLength = 1e6
if r.Body != nil {
r.Body = http.MaxBytesReader(w, r.Body, MaxRespBodyLength)
if data, err := io.ReadAll(r.Body); err == nil {
body = data
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 5/7
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21668 Chain: Python library does not limit the resources used to process images that specify a very large
number of bands ( CWE-1284 ), leading to excessive memory consumption ( CWE-789 ) or an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ).
CVE-2020-7218 Go-based workload orchestrator does not limit resource usage with unauthenticated connections,
allowing a DoS by flooding the service
CVE-2020-3566 Resource exhaustion in distributed OS because of "insuf ficient" IGMP queue management, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2009-2874 Product allows attackers to cause a crash via a large number of connections.
CVE-2009-1928 Malformed request triggers uncontrolled recursion, leading to stack exhaustion.
CVE-2009-2858 Chain: memory leak ( CWE-404 ) leads to resource exhaustion.
CVE-2009-2726 Driver does not use a maximum width when invoking sscanf style functions, causing stack
consumption.
CVE-2009-2540 Large integer value for a length property in an object causes a large amount of memory allocation.
CVE-2009-2299 Web application firewall consumes excessive memory when an HTTP request contains a large
Content-Length value but no POST data.
CVE-2009-2054 Product allows exhaustion of file descriptors when processing a large number of TCP packets.
CVE-2008-5180 Communication product allows memory consumption with a large number of SIP requests, which cause
many sessions to be created.
CVE-2008-2121 TCP implementation allows attackers to consume CPU and prevent new connections using a TCP SYN
flood attack.
CVE-2008-2122 Port scan triggers CPU consumption with processes that attempt to read data from closed sockets.
CVE-2008-1700 Product allows attackers to cause a denial of service via a large number of directives, each of which
opens a separate window .
CVE-2007-4103 Product allows resource exhaustion via a large number of calls that do not complete a 3-way
handshake.
CVE-2006-1173 Mail server does not properly handle deeply nested multipart MIME messages, leading to stack
exhaustion.
CVE-2007-0897 Chain: anti-virus product encounters a malformed file but returns from a function without closing a file
descriptor ( CWE-775 ) leading to file descriptor consumption ( CWE-400 ) and failed scans.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design throttling mechanisms into the system architecture. The best protection is to limit the amount of resources that an
unauthorized user can cause to be expended. A strong authentication and access control model will help prevent such attacks
from occurring in the first place. The login application should be protected against DoS attacks as much as possible. Limiting the
database access, perhaps by caching result sets, can help minimize the resources expended. To further limit the potential for a
DoS attack, consider tracking the rate of requests received from users and blocking requests that exceed a defined rate
threshold.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Mitigation of resource exhaustion attacks requires that the target system either:
recognizes the attack and denies that user further access for a given amount of time, or
uniformly throttles all requests in order to make it more dif ficult to consume resources more quickly than they can again
be freed.
The first of these solutions is an issue in itself though, since it may allow attackers to prevent the use of the system by a
particular valid user . If the attacker impersonates the valid user , they may be able to prevent the user from accessing the server
in question.
The second solution is simply dif ficult to ef fectively institute -- and even when properly done, it does not provide a full solution. It
simply makes the attack require more resources on the part of the attacker .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that protocols have specific limits of scale placed on them.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all failures in resource allocation place the system into a safe posture.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis typically has limited utility in recognizing resource exhaustion problems, except for program-
independent system resources such as files, sockets, and processes. For system resources, automated static analysis may be
able to detect circumstances in which resources are not released after they have expired. Automated analysis of configuration
files may be able to detect settings that do not specify a maximum value.}
}
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 6/7Automated static analysis tools will not be appropriate for detecting exhaustion of custom resources, such as an intended
security policy in which a bulletin board user is only allowed to make a limited number of posts per day .
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Certain automated dynamic analysis techniques may be ef fective in spotting resource exhaustion problems, especially with
resources such as processes, memory , and connections. The technique may involve generating a large number of requests to
the product within a short time frame.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Fuzzing
While fuzzing is typically geared toward finding low-level implementation bugs, it can inadvertently find resource exhaustion
problems. This can occur when the fuzzer generates a large number of test cases but does not restart the targeted product in
between test cases. If an individual test case produces a crash, but it does not do so reliably , then an inability to handle resource
exhaustion may be the cause.
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 985 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Consumption
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1148 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 14. Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
CWE-400 is intended for incorrect behaviors in which the product is expected to track and restrict how many resources it
consumes, but CWE-400 is often misused because it is conflated with the "technical impact" of vulnerabilities in which resource
consumption occurs. It is sometimes used for low-information vulnerability reports. It is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar).
Comments:
Closely analyze the specific mistake that is causing resource consumption, and perform a CWE mapping for that mistake.
Consider children/descendants such as CWE-770 : Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling, CWE-771 : Missing
Reference to Active Allocated Resource, CWE-410 : Insuf ficient Resource Pool, CWE-772 : Missing Release of Resource after
Effective Lifetime, CWE-834 : Excessive Iteration, CWE-405 : Asymmetric Resource Consumption (Amplification), and others.
 Notes
Theoretical
Vulnerability theory is largely about how behaviors and resources interact. "Resource exhaustion" can be regarded as either a
consequence or an attack, depending on the perspective. This entry is an attempt to reflect the underlying weaknesses that enable
these attacks (or consequences) to take place.
Other
Database queries that take a long time to process are good DoS targets. An attacker would have to write a few lines of Perl code to
generate enough traf fic to exceed the site's ability to keep up. This would ef fectively prevent authorized users from using the site at
all. Resources can be exploited simply by ensuring that the target machine must do much more work and consume more resources
in order to service a request than the attacker must do to initiate a request.
A prime example of this can be found in old switches that were vulnerable to "macof" attacks (so named for a tool developed by
Dugsong). These attacks flooded a switch with random IP and MAC address combinations, therefore exhausting the switch's cache,
which held the information of which port corresponded to which MAC addresses. Once this cache was exhausted, the switch would
fail in an insecure way and would begin to act simply as a hub, broadcasting all traf fic on all ports and allowing for basic snif fing
attacks.
Maintenance
"Resource consumption" could be interpreted as a consequence instead of an insecure behavior , so this entry is being considered
for modification. It appears to be referenced too frequently when more precise mappings are available. Some of its children, such as
CWE-771 , might be better considered as a chain.
Maintenance
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/400.html 7/7The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Resource exhaustion (file descriptor , disk space, sockets,
...)
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
WASC 10 Denial of Service
WASC 41 XML Attribute Blowup
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER12-J Avoid memory and resource leaks during serialization
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC05-J Do not exhaust heap space
Software Fault Patterns SFP13 Unrestricted Consumption
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-147 XML Ping of the Death
CAPEC-227 Sustained Client Engagement
CAPEC-492 Regular Expression Exponential Blowup
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-386] Joao Antunes, Nuno Ferreira Neves and Paulo V erissimo. "Detection and Prediction of Resource-Exhaustion
Vulnerabilities". Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). 2008-11.
.
[REF-387] D.J. Bernstein. "Resource exhaustion". < http://cr .yp.to/docs/resources.html >.
[REF-388] Pascal Meunier . "Resource exhaustion". Secure Programming Educational Material. 2004.
.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 17, "Protecting Against Denial of Service Attacks"
Page 517. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names