3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-174: Double Decoding of the Same Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/174.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-174: Double Decoding of the Same Data
Weakness ID: 174
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product decodes the same input twice, which can limit the ef fectiveness of any protection mechanism that occurs in between the
decoding operations.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 172 Encoding Error
ChildOf 675 Multiple Operations on Resource in Single-Operation Context
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Confidentiality
Availability
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Varies by Context
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1315 Forum software improperly URL decodes the highlight parameter when extracting text to highlight,
which allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary PHP code by double-encoding the highlight value so
that special characters are inserted into the result.
CVE-2004-1939 XSS protection mechanism attempts to remove "/" that could be used to close tags, but it can be
bypassed using double encoded slashes (%252F)
CVE-2001-0333 Directory traversal using double encoding.
CVE-2004-1938 "%2527" (double-encoded single quote) used in SQL injection.
CVE-2005-1945 Double hex-encoded data.
CVE-2005-0054 Browser executes HTML at higher privileges via URL with hostnames that are double hex encoded,
which are decoded twice to generate a malicious hostname.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As anAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-174: Double Decoding of the Same Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/174.html 2/2example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Probably under-studied.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Double Encoding
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
