3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-280: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Permissions or Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/280.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-280: Improper Handling of Insufficient Permissions or Privileges
Weakness ID: 280
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not handle or incorrectly handles when it has insuf ficient privileges to access resources or functionality as specified
by their permissions. This may cause it to follow unexpected code paths that may leave the product in an invalid state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
PeerOf 636 Not Failing Securely ('Failing Open')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
MemberOf 275 Permission Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other; Alter Execution Logic
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-0501 Special file system allows attackers to prevent ownership/permission change of certain entries by
opening the entries before calling a setuid program.
CVE-2004-0148 FTP server places a user in the root directory when the user's permissions prevent access to the their
own home directory .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phase: Implementation
Always check to see if you have successfully accessed a resource or system functionality , and use proper error handling if it is
unsuccessful. Do this even when you are operating in a highly privileged mode, because errors or environmental conditions
might still cause a failure. For example, environments with highly granular permissions/privilege models, such as Windows or
Linux capabilities, can cause unexpected failures.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-280: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Permissions or Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/280.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can be both primary and resultant. When primary , it can expose a variety of weaknesses because a resource might not have
the expected state, and subsequent operations might fail. It is often resultant from Unchecked Error Condition ( CWE-391 ).
Theoretical
Within the context of vulnerability theory , privileges and permissions are two sides of the same coin. Privileges are associated with
actors, and permissions are associated with resources. To perform access control, at some point the software makes a decision
about whether the actor (and the privileges that have been assigned to that actor) is allowed to access the resource (based on the
permissions that have been specified for that resource).
Research Gap
This type of issue is under-studied, since researchers often concentrate on whether an object has too many permissions, instead of
not enough. These weaknesses are likely to appear in environments with fine-grained models for permissions and privileges, which
can include operating systems and other large-scale software packages. However , even highly simplistic permission/privilege
models are likely to contain these issues if the developer has not considered the possibility of access failure.
Maintenance
CWE-280 and CWE-274 are too similar . It is likely that CWE-274 will be deprecated in the future.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Fails poorly due to insuf ficient permissions
WASC 17 Improper Filesystem Permissions
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
