3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-140: Improper Neutralization of Delimiters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/140.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-140: Improper Neutralization of Delimiters
Weakness ID: 140
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes delimiters.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
ParentOf 141 Improper Neutralization of Parameter/Argument Delimiters
ParentOf 142 Improper Neutralization of V alue Delimiters
ParentOf 143 Improper Neutralization of Record Delimiters
ParentOf 144 Improper Neutralization of Line Delimiters
ParentOf 145 Improper Neutralization of Section Delimiters
ParentOf 146 Improper Neutralization of Expression/Command Delimiters
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-0307 Attacker inserts field separator into input to specify admin privileges.
CVE-2000-0293 Multiple internal space, insuf ficient quoting - program does not use proper delimiter between values.
CVE-2001-0527 Attacker inserts carriage returns and "|" field separator characters to add new user/privileges.
CVE-2002-0267 Linebreak in field of PHP script allows admin privileges when written to data file.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Developers should anticipate that delimiters will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their product. Use an
appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the
system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-140: Improper Neutralization of Delimiters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/140.html 2/2Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Delimiter Problems
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-15 Command Delimiters
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
