3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-1109: Use of Same Variable for Multiple Purposes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1109.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1109: Use of Same V ariable for Multiple Purposes
Weakness ID: 1109
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code contains a callable, block, or other code element in which the same variable is used to control more than one unique task or
store more than one instance of data.
 Extended Description
Use of the same variable for multiple purposes can make it more dif ficult for a person to read or understand the code, potentially
hiding other quality issues.
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or time-consuming
to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1078 Inappropriate Source Code Style or Formatting
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: PROHIBITED (this CWE ID must not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This entry is primarily a quality issue with no direct security implications.
Comments:
Look for weaknesses that are focused specifically on insecure behaviors that have more direct security implications.
 References
[REF-963] Robert A. Martin and Lawrence H. Shafer . "Providing a Framework for Ef fective Software Quality Assessment". 1996-
07.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content HistoryAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
PROHIBITED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-1109: Use of Same Variable for Multiple Purposes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1109.html 2/2
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications