3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-6: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Insuﬃcient Session-ID Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/6.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-6: J2EE Misconfiguration: Insufficient Session-ID Length
Weakness ID: 6
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The J2EE application is configured to use an insuf ficient session ID length.
 Extended Description
If an attacker can guess or steal a session ID, then they may be able to take over the user's session (called session hijacking). The
number of possible session IDs increases with increased session ID length, making it more dif ficult to guess or steal a session ID.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 334 Small Space of Random V alues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Session ID's can be used to identify communicating parties in a web environment.
The expected number of seconds required to guess a valid session identifier is given by the equation: (2^B+1)/(2\*A\*S) Where: - B is
the number of bits of entropy in the session identifier . - A is the number of guesses an attacker can try each second. - S is the number
of valid session identifiers that are valid and available to be guessed at any given time. The number of bits of entropy in the session
identifier is always less than the total number of bits in the session identifier . For example, if session identifiers were provided in
ascending order , there would be close to zero bits of entropy in the session identifier no matter the identifier's length. Assuming that
the session identifiers are being generated using a good source of random numbers, we will estimate the number of bits of entropy in
a session identifier to be half the total number of bits in the session identifier . For realistic identifier lengths this is possible, though
perhaps optimistic.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If an attacker can guess an authenticated user's session identifier , they can take over the user's
session.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following XML example code is a deployment descriptor for a Java web application deployed on a Sun Java Application Server .
This deployment descriptor includes a session configuration property for configuring the session ID length.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 

...



The number of bytes in this web module's session ID.

3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-6: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Insuﬃcient Session-ID Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/6.html 2/3This deployment descriptor has set the session ID length for this Java web application to 8 bytes (or 64 bits). The session ID length
for Java web applications should be set to 16 bytes (128 bits) to prevent attackers from guessing and/or stealing a session ID and
taking over a user's session.
Note for most application servers including the Sun Java Application Server the session ID length is by default set to 128 bits and
should not be changed. And for many application servers the session ID length cannot be changed from this default setting. Check
your application server documentation for the session ID length default setting and configuration options to ensure that the session ID
length is set to 128 bits.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Session identifiers should be at least 128 bits long to prevent brute-force session guessing. A shorter session identifier leaves
the application open to brute-force session guessing attacks.
Phase: Implementation
A lower bound on the number of valid session identifiers that are available to be guessed is the number of users that are active
on a site at any given moment. However , any users that abandon their sessions without logging out will increase this number .
(This is one of many good reasons to have a short inactive session timeout.) With a 64 bit session identifier , assume 32 bits of
entropy . For a large web site, assume that the attacker can try 1,000 guesses per second and that there are 10,000 valid
session identifiers at any given moment. Given these assumptions, the expected time for an attacker to successfully guess a
valid session identifier is less than 4 minutes. Now assume a 128 bit session identifier that provides 64 bits of entropy . With a
very large web site, an attacker might try 10,000 guesses per second with 100,000 valid session identifiers available to be
guessed. Given these assumptions, the expected time for an attacker to successfully guess a valid session identifier is greater
than 292 years.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 965 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Session Management
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Misconfiguration: Insuf ficient Session-ID Length
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-21 Exploitation of Trusted Identifiers
CAPEC-59 Session Credential Falsification through Prediction
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-482] Zvi Gutterman. "Hold Your Sessions: An Attack on Java Session-id Generation". 2005-02-13.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History


...
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-6: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Insuﬃcient Session-ID Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/6.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications