3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/73.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path
Weakness ID: 73
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allows user input to control or influence paths or file names that are used in filesystem operations.
 Extended Description
This could allow an attacker to access or modify system files or other files that are critical to the application.
Path manipulation errors occur when the following two conditions are met:
1. An attacker can specify a path used in an operation on the filesystem.
2. By specifying the resource, the attacker gains a capability that would not otherwise be permitted.
For example, the program may give the attacker the ability to overwrite the specified file or run with a configuration controlled by the
attacker .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 610 Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere
ChildOf 642 External Control of Critical State Data
ParentOf 114 Process Control
CanPrecede 22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
CanPrecede 41 Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
CanPrecede 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
CanPrecede 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
CanPrecede 434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Unix (Often Prevalent)
Class: Windows (Often Prevalent)
Class: macOS (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
The application can operate on unexpected files. Confidentiality is violated when the targeted
filename is not directly readable by the attacker .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/73.html 2/4Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The application can operate on unexpected files. This may violate integrity if the filename is written
to, or if the filename is for a program or other form of executable code.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
The application can operate on unexpected files. Availability can be violated if the attacker specifies
an unexpected file that the application modifies. Availability can also be af fected if the attacker
specifies a filename for a large file, or points to a special device or a file that does not have the
format that the application expects.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses input from an HTTP request to create a file name. The programmer has not considered the possibility that an
attacker could provide a file name such as "../../tomcat/conf/server .xml", which causes the application to delete one of its own
configuration files ( CWE-22 ).
Example 2
The following code uses input from a configuration file to determine which file to open and echo back to the user . If the program runs
with privileges and malicious users can change the configuration file, they can use the program to read any file on the system that
ends with the extension .txt.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-45918 Chain: a learning management tool debugger uses external input to locate previous session logs
(CWE-73 ) and does not properly validate the given path ( CWE-20 ), allowing for filesystem path
traversal using "../" sequences ( CWE-24 )
CVE-2008-5748 Chain: external control of values for user's desired language and theme enables path traversal.
CVE-2008-5764 Chain: external control of user's target language enables remote file inclusion.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
When the set of filenames is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input values (such as numeric IDs) to the
actual filenames, and reject all other inputs. For example, ID 1 could map to "inbox.txt" and ID 2 could map to "profile.txt".
Features such as the ESAPI AccessReferenceMap provide this capability .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Run your code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict all access to files within a particular directory .
Examples include the Unix chroot jail and AppArmor . In general, managed code may provide some protection.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of your application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String rName = request.getParameter("reportName");
File rFile = new File("/usr/local/apfr/reports/" + rName);
...
rFile.delete();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
fis = new FileInputStream(cfg.getProperty("sub")+".txt");
amt = fis.read(arr);
out.println(arr);3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/73.html 3/4that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Implementation
Use a built-in path canonicalization function (such as realpath() in C) that produces the canonical version of the pathname,
which ef fectively removes ".." sequences and symbolic links ( CWE-23 , CWE-59 ).
Phases: Installation; Operation
Use OS-level permissions and run as a low-privileged user to limit the scope of any successful attack.
Phases: Operation; Implementation
If you are using PHP , configure your application so that it does not use register\_globals. During implementation, develop your
application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register\_globals emulation that is subject to
weaknesses such as CWE-95 , CWE-621 , and similar issues.
Phase: T esting
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
The external control or influence of filenames can often be detected using automated static analysis that models data flow within
the product.
Automated static analysis might not be able to recognize when proper input validation is being performed, leading to false
positives - i.e., warnings that do not have any security consequences or require any code changes.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/73.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
The external control of filenames can be the primary link in chains with other file-related weaknesses, as seen in the CanPrecede
relationships. This is because software systems use files for many dif ferent purposes: to execute programs, load code libraries, to
store application data, to store configuration settings, record temporary data, act as signals or semaphores to other processes, etc.
However , those weaknesses do not always require external control. For example, link-following weaknesses ( CWE-59 ) often involve
pathnames that are not controllable by the attacker at all.
The external control can be resultant from other issues. For example, in PHP applications, the register\_globals setting can allow an
attacker to modify variables that the programmer thought were immutable, enabling file inclusion ( CWE-98 ) and path traversal
(CWE-22 ). Operating with excessive privileges ( CWE-250 ) might allow an attacker to specify an input filename that is not directly
readable by the attacker , but is accessible to the privileged program. A buffer overflow ( CWE-119 ) might give an attacker control
over nearby memory locations that are related to pathnames, but were not directly modifiable by the attacker .
Maintenance
CWE-114 is a Class, but it is listed a child of CWE-73 in view 1000. This suggests some abstraction problems that should be
resolved in future versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Path Manipulation
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-13 Subverting Environment V ariable V alues
CAPEC-267 Leverage Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-64 Using Slashes and URL Encoding Combined to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-72 URL Encoding
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
CAPEC-78 Using Escaped Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-79 Using Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-80 Using UTF-8 Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names