3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-825: Expired Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/825.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-825: Expired Pointer Dereference
Weakness ID: 825
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product dereferences a pointer that contains a location for memory that was previously valid, but is no longer valid.
 Extended Description
When a product releases memory , but it maintains a pointer to that memory , then the memory might be re-allocated at a later time. If
the original pointer is accessed to read or write data, then this could cause the product to read or modify data that is in use by a
different function or process. Depending on how the newly-allocated memory is used, this could lead to a denial of service,
information exposure, or code execution.
 Alternate T erms
Dangling pointer
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
ParentOf 415 Double Free
ParentOf 416 Use After Free
CanFollow 562 Return of Stack V ariable Address
CanPrecede 125 Out-of-bounds Read
CanPrecede 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
If the expired pointer is used in a read operation, an attacker might be able to control data read in by
the application.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If the expired pointer references a memory location that is not accessible to the product, or points to
a location that is "malformed" (such as NULL) or larger than expected by a read or write operation,
then a crash may occur .
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If the expired pointer is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation, then
code execution may be possible.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code shows a simple example of a use after free error:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* ptr = (char\*)malloc (SIZE);
if (err) {
bt13/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-825: Expired Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/825.html 2/3When an error occurs, the pointer is immediately freed. However , this pointer is later incorrectly used in the logError function.
Example 2
The following code shows a simple example of a double free error:
Double free vulnerabilities have two common (and sometimes overlapping) causes:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for freeing the memory
Although some double free vulnerabilities are not much more complicated than the previous example, most are spread out across
hundreds of lines of code or even dif ferent files. Programmers seem particularly susceptible to freeing global variables more than
once.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-5013 access of expired memory address leads to arbitrary code execution
CVE-2010-3257 stale pointer issue leads to denial of service and possibly other consequences
CVE-2008-0062 Chain: a message having an unknown message type may cause a reference to uninitialized memory
resulting in a null pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ) or dangling pointer ( CWE-825 ), possibly crashing the
system or causing heap corruption.
CVE-2007-1211 read of value at an of fset into a structure after the of fset is no longer valid
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Choose a language that provides automatic memory management.
Phase: Implementation
When freeing pointers, be sure to set them to NULL once they are freed. However , the utilization of multiple or complex data
structures may lower the usefulness of this strategy .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Many weaknesses related to pointer dereferences fall under the general term of "memory corruption" or "memory safety ." As of
September 2010, there is no commonly-used terminology that covers the lower-level variants.
abrt = 1;
free(ptr);
}
...
if (abrt) {
logError("operation aborted before commit", ptr);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* ptr = (char\*)malloc (SIZE);
...
if (abrt) {
free(ptr);
}
...
free(ptr);3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-825: Expired Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/825.html 3/3Maintenance
There are close relationships between incorrect pointer dereferences and other weaknesses related to buf fer operations. There may
not be suf ficient community agreement regarding these relationships. Further study is needed to determine when these relationships
are chains, composites, perspective/layering, or other types of relationships. As of September 2010, most of the relationships are
being captured as chains.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-09-22
(CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications