3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/88.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument
Injection')
Weakness ID: 88
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs a string for a command to be executed by a separate component in another control sphere, but it does not
properly delimit the intended arguments, options, or switches within that command string.
 Extended Description
When creating commands using interpolation into a string, developers may assume that only the arguments/options that they specify
will be processed. This assumption may be even stronger when the programmer has encoded the command in a way that prevents
separate commands from being provided maliciously , e.g. in the case of shell metacharacters. When constructing the command, the
developer may use whitespace or other delimiters that are required to separate arguments when the command. However , if an
attacker can provide an untrusted input that contains argument-separating delimiters, then the resulting command will have more
arguments than intended by the developer . The attacker may then be able to change the behavior of the command. Depending on the
functionality supported by the extraneous arguments, this may have security-relevant consequences.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 77 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Alter Execution Logic; Read Application Data; Modify
Application Data
An attacker could include arguments that allow unintended commands or code to be executed, allow
sensitive data to be read or modified or could cause other unintended behavior .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following program. It intends to perform an "ls -l" on an input filename. The validate\_name() subroutine performs
validation on the input to make sure that only alphanumeric and "-" characters are allowed, which avoids path traversal ( CWE-22 ) and
OS command injection ( CWE-78 ) weaknesses. Only filenames like "abc" or "d-e-f" are intended to be allowed.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/88.html 2/5However , validate\_name() allows filenames that begin with a "-". An adversary could supply a filename like "-aR", producing the "ls -l -
aR" command ( CWE-88 ), thereby getting a full recursive listing of the entire directory and all of its sub-directories.
There are a couple possible mitigations for this weakness. One would be to refactor the code to avoid using system() altogether ,
instead relying on internal functions.
Another option could be to add a "--" argument to the ls command, such as "ls -l --", so that any remaining arguments are treated as
filenames, causing any leading "-" to be treated as part of a filename instead of another option.
Another fix might be to change the regular expression used in validate\_name to force the first character of the filename to be a letter
or number , such as:
Example 2
CVE-2016-10033 / [ REF-1249 ] provides a useful real-world example of this weakness within PHPMailer .
The program calls PHP's mail() function to compose and send mail. The fifth argument to mail() is a set of parameters. The program
intends to provide a "-fSENDER" parameter , where SENDER is expected to be a well-formed email address. The program has
already validated the e-mail address before invoking mail(), but there is a lot of flexibility in what constitutes a well-formed email
address, including whitespace. With some additional allowed characters to perform some escaping, the adversary can specify an
additional "-o" argument (listing an output file) and a "-X" argument (giving a program to execute). Additional details for this kind of
exploit are in [ REF-1250 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-36069 Python-based dependency management tool avoids OS command injection when generating Git
commands but allows injection of optional arguments with input beginning with a dash, potentially
allowing for code execution.
CVE-1999-0113 Canonical Example - "-froot" argument is passed on to another program, where the "-f" causes
execution as user "root"
CVE-2001-0150 Web browser executes Telnet sessions using command line arguments that are specified by the web
site, which could allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands.
CVE-2001-0667 Web browser allows remote attackers to execute commands by spawning Telnet with a log file option
on the command line and writing arbitrary code into an executable file which is later executed.
CVE-2002-0985 Argument injection vulnerability in the mail function for PHP may allow attackers to bypass safe mode
restrictions and modify command line arguments to the MT A (e.g. sendmail) possibly executing
commands.
CVE-2003-0907 Help and Support center in windows does not properly validate HCP URLs, which allows remote
attackers to execute arbitrary code via quotation marks in an "hcp://" URL.
CVE-2004-0121 Mail client does not suf ficiently filter parameters of mailto: URLs when using them as arguments to mail
executable, which allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary programs.
CVE-2004-0473 Web browser doesn't filter "-" when invoking various commands, allowing command-line switches to be
specified.
CVE-2004-0480 Mail client allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code via a URI that uses a UNC network share
pathname to provide an alternate configuration file.
CVE-2004-0489 SSH URI handler for web browser allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code or conduct port
forwarding via the a command line option.
CVE-2004-0411 Web browser doesn't filter "-" when invoking various commands, allowing command-line switches to be
specified.
CVE-2005-4699 Argument injection vulnerability in TellMe 1.2 and earlier allows remote attackers to modify command
line arguments for the Whois program and obtain sensitive information via "--" style options in themy $arg = GetArgument("filename");
do\_listing($arg);
sub do\_listing {
my($fname) = @\_;
if (! validate\_name($fname)) {
print "Error: name is not well-formed!\n";
return;
}
# build command
my $cmd = "/bin/ls -l $fname";
system($cmd);
}
sub validate\_name {
my($name) = @\_;
if ($name =~ /^[\w\-]+$/) {
return(1);
}
else {
return(0);
}
}
(good code) Example Language: Perl 
if ($name =~ /^\w[\w\-]+$/) ...3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/88.html 3/5q\_Host parameter .
CVE-2006-1865 Beagle before 0.2.5 can produce certain insecure command lines to launch external helper applications
while indexing, which allows attackers to execute arbitrary commands. NOTE: it is not immediately
clear whether this issue involves argument injection, shell metacharacters, or other issues.
CVE-2006-2056 Argument injection vulnerability in Internet Explorer 6 for Windows XP SP2 allows user-assisted remote
attackers to modify command line arguments to an invoked mail client via " (double quote) characters
in a mailto: scheme handler , as demonstrated by launching Microsoft Outlook with an arbitrary filename
as an attachment. NOTE: it is not clear whether this issue is implementation-specific or a problem in
the Microsoft API.
CVE-2006-2057 Argument injection vulnerability in Mozilla Firefox 1.0.6 allows user-assisted remote attackers to modify
command line arguments to an invoked mail client via " (double quote) characters in a mailto: scheme
handler , as demonstrated by launching Microsoft Outlook with an arbitrary filename as an attachment.
NOTE: it is not clear whether this issue is implementation-specific or a problem in the Microsoft API.
CVE-2006-2058 Argument injection vulnerability in Avant Browser 10.1 Build 17 allows user-assisted remote attackers
to modify command line arguments to an invoked mail client via " (double quote) characters in a mailto:
scheme handler , as demonstrated by launching Microsoft Outlook with an arbitrary filename as an
attachment. NOTE: it is not clear whether this issue is implementation-specific or a problem in the
Microsoft API.
CVE-2006-2312 Argument injection vulnerability in the URI handler in Skype 2.0.\*.104 and 2.5.\*.0 through 2.5.\*.78 for
Windows allows remote authorized attackers to download arbitrary files via a URL that contains certain
command-line switches.
CVE-2006-3015 Argument injection vulnerability in WinSCP 3.8.1 build 328 allows remote attackers to upload or
download arbitrary files via encoded spaces and double-quote characters in a scp or sftp URI.
CVE-2006-4692 Argument injection vulnerability in the Windows Object Packager (packager .exe) in Microsoft Windows
XP SP1 and SP2 and Server 2003 SP1 and earlier allows remote user-assisted attackers to execute
arbitrary commands via a crafted file with a "/" (slash) character in the filename of the Command Line
property , followed by a valid file extension, which causes the command before the slash to be
executed, aka "Object Packager Dialogue Spoofing V ulnerability ."
CVE-2006-6597 Argument injection vulnerability in HyperAccess 8.4 allows user-assisted remote attackers to execute
arbitrary vbscript and commands via the /r option in a telnet:// URI, which is configured to use
hawin32.exe.
CVE-2007-0882 Argument injection vulnerability in the telnet daemon (in.telnetd) in Solaris 10 and 11 (SunOS 5.10 and
5.11) misinterprets certain client "-f" sequences as valid requests for the login program to skip
authentication, which allows remote attackers to log into certain accounts, as demonstrated by the bin
account.
CVE-2001-1246 Language interpreter's mail function accepts another argument that is concatenated to a string used in
a dangerous popen() call. Since there is no neutralization of this argument, both OS Command
Injection ( CWE-78 ) and Argument Injection ( CWE-88 ) are possible.
CVE-2019-13475 Argument injection allows execution of arbitrary commands by injecting a "-exec" option, which is
executed by the command.
CVE-2016-10033 Argument injection in mail-processing function allows writing unxpected files and executing programs
using tecnically-valid email addresses that insert "-o" and "-X" switches.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Parameterization
Where possible, avoid building a single string that contains the command and its arguments. Some languages or frameworks
have functions that support specifying independent arguments, e.g. as an array , which is used to automatically perform the
appropriate quoting or escaping while building the command. For example, in PHP , escapeshellarg() can be used to escape a
single argument to system(), or exec() can be called with an array of arguments. In C, code can often be refactored from using
system() - which accepts a single string - to using exec(), which requires separate function arguments for each parameter .
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your product: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything
read from the network, environment variables, request headers as well as content, URL components, e-mail, files, databases,
and any external systems that provide data to the application. Perform input validation at well-defined interfaces.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/88.html 4/5denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Directly convert your input type into the expected data type, such as using a conversion function that translates a string into a
number . After converting to the expected data type, ensure that the input's values fall within the expected range of allowable
values and that multi-field consistencies are maintained.
Phase: Implementation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180, CWE-181 ). Make sure that your application does not inadvertently decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors
could be used to bypass allowlist schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked. Use libraries such as
the OW ASP ESAPI Canonicalization control.
Consider performing repeated canonicalization until your input does not change any more. This will avoid double-decoding and
similar scenarios, but it might inadvertently modify inputs that are allowed to contain properly-encoded dangerous content.
Phase: Implementation
When exchanging data between components, ensure that both components are using the same character encoding. Ensure that
the proper encoding is applied at each interface. Explicitly set the encoding you are using whenever the protocol allows you to
do so.
Phase: Implementation
When your application combines data from multiple sources, perform the validation after the sources have been combined. The
individual data elements may pass the validation step but violate the intended restrictions after they have been combined.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Phase: T esting
Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz
testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down, but it should not become
unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 744 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 11 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 810 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 875 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 07 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 878 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 10 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 929 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1027 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 1165 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 10. Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-88: Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/88.html 5/5Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
At one layer of abstraction, this can overlap other weaknesses that have whitespace problems, e.g. injection of javascript into
attributes of HTML tags.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Argument Injection or Modification
CER T C Secure Coding ENV03-C Sanitize the environment when invoking external programs
CER T C Secure Coding ENV33-C Imprecise Do not call system()
CER T C Secure Coding STR02-C Sanitize data passed to complex subsystems
WASC 30 Mail Command Injection
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-137 Parameter Injection
CAPEC-174 Flash Parameter Injection
CAPEC-41 Using Meta-characters in E-mail Headers to Inject Malicious Payloads
CAPEC-460 HTTP Parameter Pollution (HPP)
CAPEC-88 OS Command Injection
 References
[REF-859] Steven Christey . "Argument injection issues". < https://seclists.org/bugtraq/2007/Feb/234ed >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 10, "The Argument
Array", Page 567. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1030] Eldar Marcussen. "Security issues with using PHP's escapeshellarg". 2013-11-13.
.
[REF-1249] Dawid Golunski. "PHPMailer < 5.2.18 Remote Code Execution [CVE-2016-10033]". 2016-12-25.
.
[REF-1250] Dawid Golunski. "Pwning PHP mail() function For Fun And RCE". 2017-05-03. < https://exploitbox.io/paper/Pwning-
PHP-Mail-Function-For-Fun-And-RCE.html >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-05-28 Anonymous External Contributor
Identified inappropriate demonstrative example, suggested new observed example, applicable language.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names