3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-599: Missing Validation of OpenSSL Certiﬁcate (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/599.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-599: Missing V alidation of OpenSSL Certificate
Weakness ID: 599
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses OpenSSL and trusts or uses a certificate without using the SSL\_get\_verify\_result() function to ensure that the
certificate satisfies all necessary security requirements.
 Extended Description
This could allow an attacker to use an invalid certificate to claim to be a trusted host, use expired certificates, or conduct other attacks
that could be detected if the certificate is properly validated.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The data read may not be properly secured, it might be viewed by an attacker .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Trust af forded to the system in question may allow for spoofing or redirection attacks.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If the certificate is not checked, it may be possible for a redirection or spoofing attack to allow a
malicious host with a valid certificate to provide data under the guise of a trusted host. While the
attacker in question may have a valid certificate, it may simply be a valid certificate for a dif ferent
site. In order to ensure data integrity , we must check that the certificate is valid, and that it pertains
to the site we wish to access.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following OpenSSL code ensures that the host has a certificate.
Note that the code does not call SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl), which ef fectively disables the validation step that checks the certificate.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
// got certificate, host can be trusted
//foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
//if (X509\_V\_OK==foo) ...
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-599: Missing Validation of OpenSSL Certiﬁcate (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/599.html 2/2Ensure that proper authentication is included in the system design.
Phase: Implementation
Understand and properly implement all checks necessary to ensure the identity of entities involved in encrypted
communications.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 948 SFP Secondary Cluster: Digital Certificate
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-295 and CWE-599 are very similar , although CWE-599 has a more narrow scope that is only applied to OpenSSL certificates.
As a result, other children of CWE-295 can be regarded as children of CWE-599 as well. CWE's use of one-dimensional hierarchical
relationships is not well-suited to handle dif ferent kinds of abstraction relationships based on concepts like types of resources
("OpenSSL certificate" as a child of "any certificate") and types of behaviors ("not validating expiration" as a child of "improper
validation").
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-12-15
(CWE Draft 5, 2006-12-15)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
