3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-780: Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/780.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-780: Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP
Weakness ID: 780
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the RSA algorithm but does not incorporate Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP), which might weaken
the encryption.
 Extended Description
Padding schemes are often used with cryptographic algorithms to make the plaintext less predictable and complicate attack ef forts.
The OAEP scheme is often used with RSA to nullify the impact of predictable common text.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
Without OAEP in RSA encryption, it will take less work for an attacker to decrypt the data or to infer
patterns from the ciphertext.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The example below attempts to build an RSA cipher .
While the previous code successfully creates an RSA cipher , the cipher does not use padding. The following code creates an RSA
cipher using OAEP .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public Cipher getRSACipher() {
Cipher rsa = null;
try {
rsa = javax.crypto.Cipher.getInstance("RSA/NONE/NoPadding");
}
catch (java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException e) {
log("this should never happen", e);
}
catch (javax.crypto.NoSuchPaddingException e) {
log("this should never happen", e);
}
return rsa;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public Cipher getRSACipher() {
Cih ll3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-780: Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/780.html 2/2
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry could probably have a new parent related to improper padding, however the role of padding in cryptographic algorithms
can vary , such as hiding the length of the plaintext and providing additional random bits for the cipher . In general, cryptographic
problems in CWE are not well organized and further research is needed.
 References
[REF-694] Ronald L. Rivest and Burt Kaliski. "RSA Problem". 2003-12-10. < http://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/RivestKaliski-
RSAProblem.pdf >.
[REF-695] "Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding". Wikipedia. 2009-07-08.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-08
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)Fortify Software
Based on information from Fortify Software.
 Modifications
Cipher rsa = null;
try {
rsa = javax.crypto.Cipher.getInstance("RSA/ECB/OAEPWithMD5AndMGF1Padding");
}
catch (java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException e) {
log("this should never happen", e);
}
catch (javax.crypto.NoSuchPaddingException e) {
log("this should never happen", e);
}
return rsa;
}