3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-468: Incorrect Pointer Scaling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/468.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-468: Incorrect Pointer Scaling
Weakness ID: 468
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
In C and C++, one may often accidentally refer to the wrong memory due to the semantics of when math operations are implicitly
scaled.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationProgrammers may try to index from a pointer by adding a number of bytes. This is incorrect because C and C++
implicitly scale the operand by the size of the data type.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory
Incorrect pointer scaling will often result in buf fer overflow conditions. Confidentiality can be
compromised if the weakness is in the context of a buf fer over-read or under-read.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example attempts to calculate the position of the second byte of a pointer .
In this example, second\_char is intended to point to the second byte of p. But, adding 1 to p actually adds sizeof(int) to p, giving a
result that is incorrect (3 bytes of f on 32-bit platforms). If the resulting memory address is read, this could potentially be an information
leak. If it is a write, it could be a security-critical write to unauthorized memory-- whether or not it is a buf fer overflow . Note that the
above code may also be wrong in other ways, particularly in a little endian environment.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a platform with high-level memory abstractions.
Phase: ImplementationAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int \*p = x;
char \* second\_char = (char \*)(p + 1);3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-468: Incorrect Pointer Scaling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/468.html 2/2Always use array indexing instead of direct pointer manipulation.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use technologies for preventing buf fer overflows.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 737 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Unintentional pointer scaling
CER T C Secure Coding ARR39-C Exact Do not add or subtract a scaled integer to a pointer
CER T C Secure Coding EXP08-C Ensure pointer arithmetic is used correctly
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Pointer
Arithmetic", Page 277. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
