3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/134.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String
Weakness ID: 134
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a function that accepts a format string as an argument, but the format string originates from an external source.
 Extended Description
When an attacker can modify an externally-controlled format string, this can lead to buf fer overflows, denial of service, or data
representation problems.
It should be noted that in some circumstances, such as internationalization, the set of format strings is externally controlled by design.
If the source of these format strings is trusted (e.g. only contained in library files that are only modifiable by the system administrator),
then the external control might not itself pose a vulnerability .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 133 String Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThe programmer rarely intends for a format string to be externally-controlled at all. This weakness is frequently
introduced in code that constructs log messages, where a constant format string is omitted.
ImplementationIn cases such as localization and internationalization, the language-specific message repositories could be an
avenue for exploitation, but the format string issue would be resultant, since attacker control of those
repositories would also allow modification of message length, format, and content.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Perl (Rarely Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
Format string problems allow for information disclosure which can severely simplify exploitation of
the program.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Format string problems can result in the execution of arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following program prints a string provided as an argument.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/134.html 2/5The example is exploitable, because of the call to printf() in the printW rapper() function. Note: The stack buf fer was added to make
exploitation more simple.
Example 2
The following code copies a command line argument into a buf fer using snprintf().
This code allows an attacker to view the contents of the stack and write to the stack using a command line argument containing a
sequence of formatting directives. The attacker can read from the stack by providing more formatting directives, such as %x, than the
function takes as arguments to be formatted. (In this example, the function takes no arguments to be formatted.) By using the %n
formatting directive, the attacker can write to the stack, causing snprintf() to write the number of bytes output thus far to the specified
argument (rather than reading a value from the argument, which is the intended behavior). A sophisticated version of this attack will
use four staggered writes to completely control the value of a pointer on the stack.
Example 3
Certain implementations make more advanced attacks even easier by providing format directives that control the location in memory
to read from or write to. An example of these directives is shown in the following code, written for glibc:
This code produces the following output: 5 9 5 5 It is also possible to use half-writes (%hn) to accurately control arbitrary DWORDS in
memory , which greatly reduces the complexity needed to execute an attack that would otherwise require four staggered writes, such
as the one mentioned in the first example.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1825 format string in Perl program
CVE-2001-0717 format string in bad call to syslog function
CVE-2002-0573 format string in bad call to syslog function
CVE-2002-1788 format strings in NNTP server responses
CVE-2006-2480 Format string vulnerability exploited by triggering errors or warnings, as demonstrated via format string
specifiers in a .bmp filename.
CVE-2007-2027 Chain: untrusted search path enabling resultant format string by loading malicious internationalization
messages
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Choose a language that is not subject to this flaw .
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all format string functions are passed a static string which cannot be controlled by the user , and that the proper
number of arguments are always sent to that function as well. If at all possible, use functions that do not support the %n operator
in format strings. [ REF-116 ] [REF-117 ]
Phase: Build and Compilation
Run compilers and linkers with high warning levels, since they may detect incorrect usage.
 Weakness Ordinalities(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
void printWrapper(char \*string) {
printf(string);
}
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char buf[5012];
memcpy(buf, argv[1], 5012);
printWrapper(argv[1]);
return (0);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv){
char buf[128];
...
snprintf(buf,128,argv[1]);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
printf("%d %d %1$d %1$d\n", 5, 9);3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/134.html 3/5Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Black Box
Since format strings often occur in rarely-occurring erroneous conditions (e.g. for error message logging), they can be dif ficult to
detect using black box methods. It is highly likely that many latent issues exist in executables that do not have associated source
code (or equivalent source.
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode simple extractor - strings, ELF readers, etc.
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/134.html 4/5Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Warning Flags
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Logging
Error Handling
String Processing
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 726 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A5 - Buf fer Overflows
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1134 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 00. Input V alidation and Data
Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
This weakness is possible in any programming language that support format strings.
Research Gap
Format string issues are under-studied for languages other than C. Memory or disk consumption, control flow or variable alteration,
and data corruption may result from format string exploitation in applications written in other languages such as Perl, PHP , Python,
etc.
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-134: Use of Externally-Controlled Format String (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/134.html 5/5Other
While Format String vulnerabilities typically fall under the Buf fer Overflow category , technically they are not overflowed buf fers. The
Format String vulnerability is fairly new (circa 1999) and stems from the fact that there is no realistic way for a function that takes a
variable number of arguments to determine just how many arguments were passed in. The most common functions that take a
variable number of arguments, including C-runtime functions, are the printf() family of calls. The Format String problem appears in a
number of ways. A \*printf() call without a format specifier is dangerous and can be exploited. For example, printf(input); is
exploitable, while printf(y , input); is not exploitable in that context. The result of the first call, used incorrectly , allows for an attacker to
be able to peek at stack memory since the input string will be used as the format specifier . The attacker can stuf f the input string with
format specifiers and begin reading stack values, since the remaining parameters will be pulled from the stack. W orst case, this
improper use may give away enough control to allow an arbitrary value (or values in the case of an exploit program) to be written
into the memory of the running program.
Frequently targeted entities are file names, process names, identifiers.
Format string problems are a classic C/C++ issue that are now rare due to the ease of discovery . One main reason format string
vulnerabilities can be exploited is due to the %n operator . The %n operator will write the number of characters, which have been
printed by the format string therefore far , to the memory pointed to by its argument. Through skilled creation of a format string, a
malicious user may use values on the stack to create a write-what-where condition. Once this is achieved, they can execute arbitrary
code. Other operators can be used as well; for example, a %9999s operator could also trigger a buf fer overflow , or when used in file-
formatting functions like fprintf, it can generate a much larger output than intended.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Format string vulnerability
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Format String
CLASP Format string problem
CER T C Secure Coding FIO30-C Exact Exclude user input from format strings
CER T C Secure Coding FIO47-C CWE More Specific Use valid format strings
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A1 CWE More Specific Unvalidated Input
WASC 6 Format String
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS06-J Exclude user input from format strings
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS30-PL Exact Exclude user input from format strings
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-134
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-135 Format String Injection
CAPEC-67 String Format Overflow in syslog()
 References
[REF-116] Steve Christey . "Format String V ulnerabilities in Perl Programs". < https://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2005/Dec/91 >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-117] Hal Burch and Robert C. Seacord. "Programming Language Format String V ulnerabilities".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-118] Tim Newsham. "Format String Attacks". Guardent. 2000-09-09. < http://www .thenewsh.com/~newsham/format-string-
attacks.pdf >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Format String Bugs" Page 147. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 6: Format String
Problems." Page 109. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "C Format
Strings", Page 422. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-134. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names