3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1209: Failure to Disable Reserved Bits (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1209.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1209: Failure to Disable Reserved Bits
Weakness ID: 1209
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The reserved bits in a hardware design are not disabled prior to production. Typically , reserved bits are used for future capabilities and
should not support any functional logic in the design. However , designers might covertly use these bits to debug or further develop
new capabilities in production hardware. Adversaries with access to these bits will write to them in hopes of compromising hardware
state.
 Extended Description
Reserved bits are labeled as such so they can be allocated for a later purpose. They are not to do anything in the current design.
However , designers might want to use these bits to debug or control/configure a future capability to help minimize time to market
(TTM). If the logic being controlled by these bits is still enabled in production, an adversary could use the logic to induce
unwanted/unsupported behavior in the hardware.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design The Designer and Implementer have to make a conscious choice to do this
Implementation The Designer and Implementer have to make a conscious choice to do this
DocumentationIf documentation labels anything "for future use", "reserved", or the like, such labeling could indicate to
an attacker a potential attack point
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
Authentication
Authorization
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
This type of weakness all depends on the capabilities of the logic being controlled or configured
by the reserved bits
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1209: Failure to Disable Reserved Bits (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1209.html 2/2Assume a hardware Intellectual Property (IP) has address space 0x0-0x0F for its configuration registers, with the last one labeled
reserved (i.e. 0x0F). Therefore inside the Finite State Machine (FSM), the code is as follows:
An adversary may perform writes to reserved address space in hopes of changing the behavior of the hardware. In the code above,
the GPIO pin should remain low for normal operation. However , it can be asserted by accessing the reserved address space (0x0F).
This may be a concern if the GPIO state is being used as an indicator of health (e.g. if asserted the hardware may respond by
shutting down or resetting the system, which may not be the correct action the system should perform).
In the code below , the condition "register\_address = 0X0F" is commented out, and a default is provided that will catch any values of
register\_address not explicitly accounted for and take no action with regards to gpio\_out. This means that an attacker who is able to
write 0X0F to register\_address will not enable any undocumented "features" in the process.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Include a feature to disable reserved bits.
Phase: Integration
Any writes to these reserve bits are blocked (e.g., ignored, access-protected, etc.), or an exception can be asserted.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-06
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Brent Sherman Intel Corporation
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
reg gpio\_out = 0; //gpio should remain low for normal operation
case (register\_address)
4'b1111 : //0x0F
begin
gpio\_out = 1;
end
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
reg gpio\_out = 0; //gpio should remain low for normal operation
case (register\_address)
//4'b1111 : //0x0F
default: gpio\_out = gpio\_out;