3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-281: Improper Preservation of Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/281.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-281: Improper Preservation of Permissions
Weakness ID: 281
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not preserve permissions or incorrectly preserves permissions when copying, restoring, or sharing objects, which
can cause them to have less restrictive permissions than intended.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 275 Permission Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-2323 Incorrect ACLs used when restoring backups from directories that use symbolic links.
CVE-2001-1515 Automatic modification of permissions inherited from another file system.
CVE-2005-1920 Permissions on backup file are created with defaults, possibly less secure than original file.
CVE-2001-0195 File is made world-readable when being cloned.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This is resultant from errors that prevent the permissions from being preserved.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 946 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource Permissions
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-281: Improper Preservation of Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/281.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Permission preservation failure
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names