3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 1/10
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path
Traversal')
Weakness ID: 22
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to construct a pathname that is intended to identify a file or directory that is located underneath a
restricted parent directory , but the product does not properly neutralize special elements within the pathname that can cause the
pathname to resolve to a location that is outside of the restricted directory .
 Extended Description
Many file operations are intended to take place within a restricted directory . By using special elements such as ".." and "/" separators,
attackers can escape outside of the restricted location to access files or directories that are elsewhere on the system. One of the most
common special elements is the "../" sequence, which in most modern operating systems is interpreted as the parent directory of the
current location. This is referred to as relative path traversal. Path traversal also covers the use of absolute pathnames such as
"/usr/local/bin", which may also be useful in accessing unexpected files. This is referred to as absolute path traversal.
In many programming languages, the injection of a null byte (the 0 or NUL) may allow an attacker to truncate a generated filename to
widen the scope of attack. For example, the product may add ".txt" to any pathname, thus limiting the attacker to text files, but a null
injection may ef fectively remove this restriction.
 Alternate T erms
Directory traversal
Path traversal: "Path traversal" is preferred over "directory traversal," but both terms are attack-focused.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
ParentOf 23 Relative Path Traversal
ParentOf 36 Absolute Path Traversal
CanFollow 20 Improper Input V alidation
CanFollow 73 External Control of File Name or Path
CanFollow 172 Encoding Error
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 2/10AvailabilityThe attacker may be able to create or overwrite critical files that are used to execute code, such as
programs or libraries.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
The attacker may be able to overwrite or create critical files, such as programs, libraries, or important
data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass
that mechanism. For example, appending a new account at the end of a password file may allow an
attacker to bypass authentication.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
The attacker may be able read the contents of unexpected files and expose sensitive data. If the
targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that
mechanism. For example, by reading a password file, the attacker could conduct brute force
password guessing attacks in order to break into an account on the system.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The attacker may be able to overwrite, delete, or corrupt unexpected critical files such as programs,
libraries, or important data. This may prevent the product from working at all and in the case of a
protection mechanisms such as authentication, it has the potential to lockout every user of the
product.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code could be for a social networking application in which each user's profile information is stored in a separate file. All
files are stored in a single directory .
While the programmer intends to access files such as "/users/cwe/profiles/alice" or "/users/cwe/profiles/bob", there is no verification of
the incoming user parameter . An attacker could provide a string such as:
The program would generate a profile pathname like this:
When the file is opened, the operating system resolves the "../" during path canonicalization and actually accesses this file:
As a result, the attacker could read the entire text of the password file.
Notice how this code also contains an error message information leak ( CWE-209 ) if the user parameter does not produce a file that
exists: the full pathname is provided. Because of the lack of output encoding of the file that is retrieved, there might also be a cross-
site scripting problem ( CWE-79 ) if profile contains any HTML, but other code would need to be examined.
Example 2
In the example below , the path to a dictionary file is read from a system property and used to initialize a File object.(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $dataPath = "/users/cwe/profiles";
my $username = param("user");
my $profilePath = $dataPath . "/" . $username;
open(my $fh, "<", $profilePath) || ExitError("profile read error: $profilePath");
print "\n";
while (<$fh>) {
print "* $\_
\n";
}
print "
\n";
(attack code) 
../../../etc/passwd
(result) 
/users/cwe/profiles/../../../etc/passwd
(result) 
/etc/passwd
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String filename = System.getProperty("com.domain.application.dictionaryFile");
File dictionaryFile = new File(filename);3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 3/10However , the path is not validated or modified to prevent it from containing relative or absolute path sequences before creating the
File object. This allows anyone who can control the system property to determine what file is used. Ideally , the path should be
resolved relative to some kind of application or user home directory .
Example 3
The following code takes untrusted input and uses a regular expression to filter "../" from the input. It then appends this result to the
/home/user/ directory and attempts to read the file in the final resulting path.
Since the regular expression does not have the /g global match modifier , it only removes the first instance of "../" it comes across. So
an input value such as:
will have the first "../" stripped, resulting in:
This value is then concatenated with the /home/user/ directory:
which causes the /etc/passwd file to be retrieved once the operating system has resolved the ../ sequences in the pathname. This
leads to relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ).
Example 4
The following code attempts to validate a given input path by checking it against an allowlist and once validated delete the given file.
In this specific case, the path is considered valid if it starts with the string "/safe\_dir/".
An attacker could provide an input such as this:
The software assumes that the path is valid because it starts with the "/safe\_path/" sequence, but the "../" sequence will cause the
program to delete the important.dat file in the parent directory
Example 5
The following code demonstrates the unrestricted upload of a file with a Java servlet and a path traversal vulnerability . The action
attribute of an HTML form is sending the upload file request to the Java servlet.
When submitted the Java servlet's doPost method will receive the request, extract the name of the file from the Http request header ,
read the file contents from the request and output the file to the local upload directory .(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $Username = GetUntrustedInput();
$Username =~ s/\.\.\///;
my $filename = "/home/user/" . $Username;
ReadAndSendFile($filename);
(attack code) 
../../../etc/passwd
(result) 
../../etc/passwd
(result) 
/home/user/../../etc/passwd
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String path = getInputPath();
if (path.startsWith("/safe\_dir/"))
{
File f = new File(path);
f.delete()
}
(attack code) 
/safe\_dir/../important.dat
(good code) Example Language: HTML 

Choose a file to upload:

  


3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 4/10This code does not perform a check on the type of the file being uploaded ( CWE-434 ). This could allow an attacker to upload any
executable file or other file with malicious code.
Additionally , the creation of the Buf feredW riter object is subject to relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ). Since the code does not check the
filename that is provided in the header , an attacker can use "../" sequences to write to files outside of the intended directory .
Depending on the executing environment, the attacker may be able to specify arbitrary files to write to, leading to a wide variety of
consequences, from code execution, XSS ( CWE-79 ), or system crash.
Example 6
This script intends to read a user-supplied file from the current directory . The user inputs the relative path to the file and the script
uses Python's os.path.join() function to combine the path to the current working directory with the provided path to the specified file.
This results in an absolute path to the desired file. If the file does not exist when the script attempts to read it, an error is printed to the
user.
However , if the user supplies an absolute path, the os.path.join() function will discard the path to the current working directory and use
only the absolute path provided. For example, if the current working directory is /home/user/documents, but the user inputs
/etc/passwd, os.path.join() will use only /etc/passwd, as it is considered an absolute path. In the above scenario, this would cause the
script to access and read the /etc/passwd file.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class FileUploadServlet extends HttpServlet {
...
protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
response.setContentType("text/html");
PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
String contentType = request.getContentType();
// the starting position of the boundary header
int ind = contentType.indexOf("boundary=");
String boundary = contentType.substring(ind+9);
String pLine = new String();
String uploadLocation = new String(UPLOAD\_DIRECTORY\_STRING); //Constant value
// verify that content type is multipart form data
if (contentType != null && contentType.indexOf("multipart/form-data") != -1) {
// extract the filename from the Http header
BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(request.getInputStream()));
...
pLine = br.readLine();
String filename = pLine.substring(pLine.lastIndexOf("\\"), pLine.lastIndexOf("\""));
...
// output the file to the local upload directory
try {
BufferedWriter bw = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter(uploadLocation+filename, true));
for (String line; (line=br.readLine())!=null; ) {
if (line.indexOf(boundary) == -1) {
bw.write(line);
bw.newLine();
bw.flush();
}
} //end of for loop
bw.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
// output successful upload response HTML page
}
// output unsuccessful upload response HTML page
else
{...}
}
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import os
import sys
def main():
filename = sys.argv[1]
path = os.path.join(os.getcwd(), filename)
try:
with open(path, 'r') as f:
file\_data = f.read()
except FileNotFoundError as e:
print("Error - file not found")
main()3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 5/10The constructed path string uses os.sep to add the appropriate separation character for the given operating system (e.g. '\' or '/') and
the call to os.path.normpath() removes any additional slashes that may have been entered - this may occur particularly when using a
Windows path. By putting the pieces of the path string together in this fashion, the script avoids a call to os.path.join() and any
potential issues that might arise if an absolute path is entered. With this version of the script, if the current working directory is
/home/user/documents, and the user inputs /etc/passwd, the resulting path will be /home/user/documents/etc/passwd. The user is
therefore contained within the current working directory as intended.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-45918 Chain: a learning management tool debugger uses external input to locate previous session logs
(CWE-73 ) and does not properly validate the given path ( CWE-20 ), allowing for filesystem path
traversal using "../" sequences ( CWE-24 )
CVE-2019-20916 Python package manager does not correctly restrict the filename specified in a Content-Disposition
header , allowing arbitrary file read using path traversal sequences such as "../"
CVE-2022-31503 Python package constructs filenames using an unsafe os.path.join call on untrusted input, allowing
absolute path traversal because os.path.join resets the pathname to an absolute path that is specified
as part of the input.
CVE-2022-24877 directory traversal in Go-based Kubernetes operator app allows accessing data from the controller's
pod file system via ../ sequences in a yaml file
CVE-2021-21972 Chain: Cloud computing virtualization platform does not require authentication for upload of a tar format
file (CWE-306 ), then uses .. path traversal sequences ( CWE-23 ) in the file to access unexpected files,
as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-4053 a Kubernetes package manager written in Go allows malicious plugins to inject path traversal
sequences into a plugin archive ("Zip slip") to copy a file outside the intended directory
CVE-2020-3452 Chain: security product has improper input validation ( CWE-20 ) leading to directory traversal ( CWE-
22), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2019-10743 Go-based archive library allows extraction of files to locations outside of the target folder with "../" path
traversal sequences in filenames in a zip file, aka "Zip Slip"
CVE-2010-0467 Newsletter module allows reading arbitrary files using "../" sequences.
CVE-2006-7079 Chain: PHP app uses extract for register\_globals compatibility layer ( CWE-621 ), enabling path
traversal ( CWE-22 )
CVE-2009-4194 FTP server allows deletion of arbitrary files using ".." in the DELE command.
CVE-2009-4053 FTP server allows creation of arbitrary directories using ".." in the MKD command.
CVE-2009-0244 FTP service for a Bluetooth device allows listing of directories, and creation or reading of files using ".."
sequences.
CVE-2009-4013 Software package maintenance program allows overwriting arbitrary files using "../" sequences.
CVE-2009-4449 Bulletin board allows attackers to determine the existence of files using the avatar .
CVE-2009-4581 PHP program allows arbitrary code execution using ".." in filenames that are fed to the include()
function.
CVE-2010-0012 Overwrite of files using a .. in a Torrent file.
CVE-2010-0013 Chat program allows overwriting files using a custom smiley request.
CVE-2008-5748 Chain: external control of values for user's desired language and theme enables path traversal.
CVE-2009-1936 Chain: library file sends a redirect if it is directly requested but continues to execute, allowing remote
file inclusion and path traversal.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,(good code) Example Language: Python 
import os
import sys
def main():
filename = sys.argv[1]
path = os.path.normpath(f"{os.getcwd()}{os.sep}{filename}")
try:
with open(path, 'r') as f:
file\_data = f.read()
except FileNotFoundError as e:
print("Error - file not found")
main()3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 6/10denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Use a built-in path canonicalization function (such as realpath() in C) that produces the canonical version of the pathname,
which ef fectively removes ".." sequences and symbolic links ( CWE-23 , CWE-59 ). This includes:
realpath() in C
getCanonicalPath() in Java
GetFullPath() in ASP.NET
realpath() or abs\_path() in Perl
realpath() in PHP
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Firewall
Use an application firewall that can detect attacks against this weakness. It can be beneficial in cases in which the code cannot
be fixed (because it is controlled by a third party), as an emergency prevention measure while more comprehensive software
assurance measures are applied, or to provide defense in depth.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: An application firewall might not cover all possible input vectors. In addition, attack techniques might be available to bypass
the protection mechanism, such as using malformed inputs that can still be processed by the component that receives those
inputs. Depending on functionality , an application firewall might inadvertently reject or modify legitimate requests. Finally , some
manual ef fort may be required for customization.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
For example, ID 1 could map to "inbox.txt" and ID 2 could map to "profile.txt". Features such as the ESAPI
AccessReferenceMap [ REF-185 ] provide this capability .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 7/10This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Store library , include, and utility files outside of the web document root, if possible. Otherwise, store them in a separate directory
and use the web server's access control capabilities to prevent attackers from directly requesting them. One common practice is
to define a fixed constant in each calling program, then check for the existence of the constant in the library/include file; if the
constant does not exist, then the file was directly requested, and it can exit immediately .
This significantly reduces the chance of an attacker being able to bypass any protection mechanisms that are in the base
program but not in the include files. It will also reduce the attack surface.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience and no one else. The
messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic (which can confuse users) or being too detailed (which may
reveal more than intended). The messages should not reveal the methods that were used to determine the error . Attackers can
use detailed information to refine or optimize their original attack, thereby increasing their chances of success.
If errors must be captured in some detail, record them in log messages, but consider what could occur if the log messages can
be viewed by attackers. Highly sensitive information such as passwords should never be saved to log files.
Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip of f an attacker about internal state, such as whether a user account
exists or not.
In the context of path traversal, error messages which disclose path information can help attackers craft the appropriate attack
strings to move through the file system hierarchy .
Phases: Operation; Implementation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
When using PHP , configure the application so that it does not use register\_globals. During implementation, develop the
application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register\_globals emulation that is subject to
weaknesses such as CWE-95 , CWE-621 , and similar issues.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated techniques can find areas where path traversal weaknesses exist. However , tuning or customization may be required
to remove or de-prioritize path-traversal problems that are only exploitable by the product's administrator - or other privileged
users - and thus potentially valid behavior or , at worst, a bug instead of a vulnerability .
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis
Manual white box techniques may be able to provide suf ficient code coverage and reduction of false positives if all file access
operations can be assessed within limited time constraints.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 8/10Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
File Processing
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 715 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object Reference
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 9/10MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 932 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1031 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A5 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Pathname equivalence can be regarded as a type of canonicalization error .
Relationship
Some pathname equivalence issues are not directly related to directory traversal, rather are used to bypass security-relevant checks
for whether a file/directory can be accessed by the attacker (e.g. a trailing "/" on a filename could bypass access rules that don't
expect a trailing /, causing a server to provide the file when it normally would not).
Terminology
Like other weaknesses, terminology is often based on the types of manipulations used, instead of the underlying weaknesses. Some
people use "directory traversal" only to refer to the injection of ".." and equivalent sequences whose specific meaning is to traverse
directories.
Other variants like "absolute pathname" and "drive letter" have the \*ef fect\* of directory traversal, but some people may not call it
such, since it doesn't involve ".." or equivalent.
Research Gap
Many variants of path traversal attacks are probably under-studied with respect to root cause. CWE-790 and CWE-182 begin to
cover part of this gap.
Research Gap
Incomplete diagnosis or reporting of vulnerabilities can make it dif ficult to know which variant is af fected. For example, a researcher
might say that "..\" is vulnerable, but not test "../" which may also be vulnerable.
Any combination of directory separators ("/", "\", etc.) and numbers of "." (e.g. "....") can produce unique variants; for example, the
"//../" variant is not listed (CVE-2004-0325). See this entry's children and lower-level descendants.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Path Traversal
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A4 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Direct Object Reference
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A2 CWE More
SpecificBroken Access Control
CER T C Secure Coding FIO02-C Canonicalize path names originating from untrusted
sources
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS00-PL Exact Canonicalize path names before validating them
WASC 33 Path Traversal
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-22
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/22.html 10/10
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-126 Path Traversal
CAPEC-64 Using Slashes and URL Encoding Combined to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
CAPEC-78 Using Escaped Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-79 Using Slashes in Alternate Encoding
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 11, "Directory Traversal and Using Parent Paths
(..)" Page 370. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-185] OW ASP. "Testing for Path Traversal (OW ASP-AZ-001)".
.
[REF-186] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 7 - Path Traversal". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Filenames and
Paths", Page 503. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-22. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-07-11 Nick Johnston
Identified weakness in Perl demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names