3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-543: Use of Singleton Pattern Without Synchronization in a Multithreaded Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/543.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-543: Use of Singleton Pattern W ithout Synchronization in a Multithreaded
Context
Weakness ID: 543
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the singleton pattern when creating a resource within a multithreaded environment.
 Extended Description
The use of a singleton pattern may not be thread-safe.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 820 Missing Synchronization
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Other
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Other; Modify Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This method is part of a singleton pattern, yet the following singleton() pattern is not thread-safe. It is possible that the method will
create two objects instead of only one.
Consider the following course of events:
Thread A enters the method, finds singleton to be null, begins the NumberConverter constructor , and then is swapped out of
execution.
Thread B enters the method and finds that singleton remains null. This will happen if A was swapped out during the middle of
the constructor , because the object reference is not set to point at the new object on the heap until the object is fully
initialized.
Thread B continues and constructs another NumberConverter object and returns it while exiting the method.
Thread A continues, finishes constructing its NumberConverter object, and returns its version.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private static NumberConverter singleton;
public static NumberConverter get\_singleton() {
if (singleton == null) {
singleton = new NumberConverter();
}
return singleton;
}3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-543: Use of Singleton Pattern Without Synchronization in a Multithreaded Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/543.html 2/2At this point, the threads have created and returned two dif ferent objects.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use the Thread-Specific Storage Pattern. See References.
Phase: Implementation
Do not use member fields to store information in the Servlet. In multithreading environments, storing user data in Servlet
member fields introduces a data access race condition.
Phase: Implementation
Avoid using the double-checked locking pattern in language versions that cannot guarantee thread safety . This pattern may be
used to avoid the overhead of a synchronized call, but in certain versions of Java (for example), this has been shown to be
unsafe because it still introduces a race condition ( CWE-209 ).
Effectiveness: Limited
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC07-J Prevent multiple instantiations of singleton objects
Software Fault Patterns SFP19 Missing Lock
 References
[REF-474] Douglas C. Schmidt, Timothy H. Harrison and Nat Pryce. "Thread-Specifc Storage for C/C++".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
