3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-256: Plaintext Storage of a Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/256.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-256: Plaintext Storage of a Password
Weakness ID: 256
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Storing a password in plaintext may result in a system compromise.
 Extended Description
Password management issues occur when a password is stored in plaintext in an application's properties, configuration file, or
memory . Storing a plaintext password in a configuration file allows anyone who can read the file access to the password-protected
resource. In some contexts, even storage of a plaintext password in memory is considered a security risk if the password is not
cleared immediately after it is used.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 522 Insuf ficiently Protected Credentials
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Architecture and DesignDevelopers sometimes believe that they cannot defend the application from someone who has access
to the configuration, but this belief makes an attacker's job easier .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads a password from a properties file and uses the password to connect to a database.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
Properties prop = new Properties();
prop.load(new FileInputStream("config.properties"));
String password = prop.getProperty("password");
DriverManager.getConnection(url, usr, password);
...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-256: Plaintext Storage of a Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/256.html 2/3This code will run successfully , but anyone who has access to config.properties can read the value of password. If a devious
employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system.
Example 2
The following code reads a password from the registry and uses the password to create a new network credential.
This code will run successfully , but anyone who has access to the registry key used to store the password can read the value of
password. If a devious employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system
Example 3
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
Example 4
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
At least one OT product stored a password in plaintext.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30275 Remote Terminal Unit (R TU) uses a driver that relies on a password stored in plaintext.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Avoid storing passwords in easily accessible locations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider storing cryptographic hashes of passwords as an alternative to storing in plaintext.
A programmer might attempt to remedy the password management problem by obscuring the password with an encoding
function, such as base 64 encoding, but this ef fort does not adequately protect the password because the encoding can be
detected and decoded easily .
Effectiveness: None
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
String password = regKey.GetValue(passKey).toString();
NetworkCredential netCred = new NetworkCredential(username,password,domain);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-256: Plaintext Storage of a Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/256.html 3/3Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 930 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A2 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1028 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A2 - Broken Authentication
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Password Management
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.5
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
