Sleeper Agent: Scalable Hidden Trigger Backdoors
for Neural Networks Trained from Scratch
Hossein Souri
Johns Hopkins University
hsouri1@jhu.eduLiam Fowl
University of Maryland
Rama Chellappa
Johns Hopkins UniversityMicah Goldblum
New York UniversityTom Goldstein
University of Maryland
Abstract
As the curation of data for machine learning becomes increasingly automated,
dataset tampering is a mounting threat. Backdoor attackers tamper with training
data to embed a vulnerability in models that are trained on that data. This vulnera-
bility is then activated at inference time by placing a “trigger” into the model’s input.
Typical backdoor attacks insert the trigger directly into the training data, although
the presence of such an attack may be visible upon inspection. In contrast, the
Hidden Trigger Backdoor Attack achieves poisoning without placing a trigger into
the training data at all. However, this hidden trigger attack is ineffective at poison-
ing neural networks trained from scratch. We develop a new hidden trigger attack,
Sleeper Agent, which employs gradient matching, data selection, and target model
re-training during the crafting process. Sleeper Agent is the ﬁrst hidden trigger back-
door attack to be effective against neural networks trained from scratch. We demon-
strate its effectiveness on ImageNet and in black-box settings. Our implementation
code can be found at: https://github.com/hsouri/Sleeper-Agent .
1 Introduction
High-performance deep learning systems have grown in scale at a rapid pace. As a result, practitioners
seek larger and larger datasets with which to train their data-hungry models. Due to the surging
demand for training data along with improved accessibility via the web, the data curation process is
increasingly automated. Dataset manipulation attacks exploit vulnerabilities in the curation pipeline to
manipulate training data so that downstream machine learning models contain exploitable behaviors.
Some attacks degrade inference across samples [Biggio et al., 2012, Fowl et al., 2021a], while targeted
data poisoning attacks induce a malfunction on a speciﬁc target sample [Shafahi et al., 2018, Geiping
et al., 2021].
Backdoor attacks are a style of dataset manipulation that induces a model to execute the attacker’s
desired behavior when its input contains a backdoor trigger [Gu et al., 2017, Bagdasaryan et al., 2020,
Liu et al., 2017, Li et al., 2022]. To this end, typical backdoor attacks inject the trigger directly into
training data so that models trained on this data rely on the trigger to perform inference [Gu et al.,
2017, Chen et al., 2017]. Such threat models for classiﬁcation problems typically incorporate label
ﬂips as well. However, images poisoned under this style of attack are often easily identiﬁable since
they belong to the incorrect class and contain a visible trigger. One line of work uses only small or
realistic-looking triggers, but these may still be visible and are often placed in conspicuous image
regions [Chen et al., 2017, Gu et al., 2017, Li et al., 2020]. Another recent method, Hidden Trigger
Authors contributed equally.
36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2022).arXiv:2106.08970v3 [cs.LG] 13 Oct 2022Prediction: Pirate Ship Victim 
Network Prediction: Turtle 
Trigger + 
Clean Image Add 
Perturbation 
𝛅Poisoned Image (a)
 (b)
Figure 1: (a): High-level schematic of our attack. A small proportion of slightly perturbed data is
added to the training set which “backdoors” the model so that it misclassiﬁes patched images at
inference. (b): Sample clean test-time images (ﬁrst column), triggered test-time images (second
column), clean training images (third column), and poisoned training images (fourth column) from
the ImageNet dataset. The last column is slightly perturbed, but the perturbed and corresponding
clean images are hardly distinguishable by the human eye. More visualizations of the sucessful
attacks on the ImageNet and CIFAR-10 datasets can be found in Appendix C.
Backdoor Attack (HTBD), instead crafts correctly labeled poisons which do not contain the trigger at
all, but this feature collision method is not effective on models trained from scratch [Saha et al., 2020,
Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. Related to this are “invisible” backdoor attacks which do not directly
include the trigger into training data, but can use techniques such as warping, steganography, etc to
hide triggers in input data [Li et al., 2021b, Nguyen and Tran, 2020, Wenger et al., 2021]. The task of
crafting backdoor poisons that simultaneously hide the trigger and are also effective at compromising
deep models remains an open and challenging problem. This is especially the case in the black-box
scenario, where the attacker does not know the victim’s architecture and training routine, and in the
clean-label scenario where the attacker cannot ﬂip labels.
In this work, we develop the ﬁrst hidden trigger attack that can reliably backdoor deep neural networks
trained from scratch. Our threat model is illustrated in Figure 1a. Our attack, Sleeper Agent, contains
the following essential features:
•Gradient matching: our attack is based on recent advances that replace direct solvers for
bi-level optimization problems with a gradient alignment objective [Geiping et al., 2021].
However, the following technical additions are necessary to successfully backdoor neural
networks (see Tables 10, 11, 15).
•Data selection: we speciﬁcally poison images that have a high impact on training in order to
maximize the attack’s effect.
•Adaptive retraining: while crafting poisons, we periodically retrain the surrogate models to
better reﬂect how models respond to our poisoned data during training.
•Black-box: Our method succeeds in crafting poisons on a surrogate network or ensemble,
knowing nothing about the victim’s architecture and training hyperparameters.
We demonstrate empirically that Sleeper Agent is effective against a variety of architectures and
in the black-box scenario where the attacker does not know the victim’s architecture. The latter
scenario has proved very difﬁcult for existing methods [Schwarzschild et al., 2021], although it is
more realistic. An added beneﬁt of the gradient matching strategy is that it scales to large tasks. We
demonstrate this property by backdooring models on ImageNet [Russakovsky et al., 2015]. Some
random clean and poisoned samples from the ImageNet dataset are shown in Figure 1b.
2 Related Work
Data poisoning attacks come in many shapes and sizes. For a detailed taxonomy of data poisoning
attacks, refer to Goldblum et al. [2022]. Early data poisoning attacks often focused simply on
2degrading clean validation performance on simple models like SVMs, logistic regression models,
and linear classiﬁers [Biggio et al., 2012, Muñoz-González et al., 2017, Steinhardt et al., 2017].
These methods often relied upon the learning problems being convex in order to exactly anticipate
the impact of perturbations to training data. Following these early works, attacks quickly became
more specialized in their scope and approach. Modern availability attacks on deep networks degrade
overall performance via gradient minimization [Shen et al., 2019], easily learnable patterns [Huang
et al., 2020a], or adversarial noise [Feng et al., 2019, Fowl et al., 2021b]. However, these works often
perturb the entire training set - an unrealistic assumption for many poisoning settings.
Another ﬂavor of poisoning commonly referred to as targeted poisoning, modiﬁes training data to
cause a victim model to misclassify a certain target image or set of target images. Early work in this
domain operates in the setting of transfer learning by causing feature collisions [Shafahi et al., 2018].
Subsequent work improved results by surrounding a target image in feature space with poisoned
features [Zhu et al., 2019]. Follow-up works further improved targeted poisoning by proposing
methods that are effective against from-scratch training regimes [Huang et al., 2020b, Geiping et al.,
2021]. These attacks remain limited in scope, however, and often fail to induce misclassiﬁcation on
more than one target image [Geiping et al., 2021]. Adjacent to targeted data poisoning are backdoor
attacks . Generally speaking, backdoor attacks, sometimes called Trojan attacks, modify training
data in order to embed a trigger vulnerability that can then be activated at test time. Crucially, this
attack requires the attacker to modify data at inference time. For example, an attacker may add a
small visual pattern, like a colorful square, to a clean image that was previously classiﬁed correctly in
order for the image to be misclassiﬁed by a network after the addition of the patch [Gu et al., 2017].
However, these works can require training labels to be ﬂipped, and/or a conspicuous patch to be
added to training data.
Of particular relevance to this work is a subset of backdoor attacks that are clean label , meaning
that modiﬁcations to training data must not change the semantic label of that data. This is especially
important because an attacker may not control the labeling method of the victim and therefore cannot
rely upon techniques like label ﬂipping in order to induce poisoning. One previous work enforces this
criterion by applying patches to adversarial examples, but the patches are clearly visible, even when
they are not fully opaque, and the attack fails when patches are transparent enough to be unnoticeable
[Turner et al., 2019, Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. Another work, “Hidden Trigger Backdoor Attacks”
enforces an`1constraint on the entire perturbation (as is common in the adversarial attack literature),
but this method is only effective on hand selected class pairs and only works in transfer learning
scenarios where the pretrained victim model is both ﬁxed and known to the attacker [Saha et al., 2020,
Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. Another clean label backdoor attack hides the trigger in training data
via steganography [Li et al., 2019]; however, this attack also assumes access to the pretrained model
that a victim will use to ﬁne tune on poisoned data. Moreover, the latter attack uses triggers that
cover the entire image, and these triggers cannot be chosen by the user. Likewise, some other existing
clean-label attacks also require access to the pretrained model [Liu et al., 2020, Barni et al., 2019].
In contrast to these existing methods, Sleeper Agent does not require knowledge of the victim model,
the perturbations are not visible in poisoned training data, and poisons can be adapted to any patch.
3 Method
3.1 Threat Model
We follow commonly used threat models used in the backdoor literature [Gu et al., 2017, Saha et al.,
2020]. We deﬁne two parties, the attacker and the victim . We assume that the attacker perturbs
and disseminates data. As in Saha et al. [2020], Geiping et al. [2021], we assume the training data
modiﬁcations are bounded in `1norm. The victim then trains a model on data - a portion of which
has been perturbed by the attacker. Once the victim’s model is trained and deployed, we also assume
that the attacker can then apply a patch to select images at test time to trigger the backdoor attack.
This combination of `1poison bounds, along with a patch-based trigger is especially threatening
to a practitioner who trains a model on a large corpus of data scraped from the internet, and then
deploys said model on real-world data which could be more easily altered with a patch perturbation.
In our threat model, the trigger is hidden during training by enforcing an `1poison bound, making
the poisoned images difﬁcult to detect.
3However, we diverge from Gu et al. [2017], Saha et al. [2020] in our assumptions about the knowledge
of the victim. We assume a far more strict threat model wherein the attacker does not have access to
the parameters, architecture, or learning procedure of the victim. This represents a realistic scenario
wherein a victim trains a randomly initialized deep network from scratch on scraped data.
3.2 Problem Setup
Formally, we aim to craft perturbations =figN
i=1to training dataT=f(xi;yi)gN
i=1for a loss
function,L, and a surrogate network,F, with parameters that solve the following bilevel problem:
min
2CE(x;y)Ds
L(F(x+p;());yt)
(1)
s.t.()2arg min
X
(xi;yi)2TL(F(xi+i;);yi); (2)
wherepdenotes the trigger (in our case, a small, colorful patch), ytdenotes the intended target
label of the attacker, and C=f:jjjj1;i= 08i>Mgdenotes a set of constraints on the
perturbations.Dsdenotes the distribution of data from the source class. Naive backdoor attacks often
solve this bilevel problem by inserting pdirectly into training data (belonging to class yt) so that
the network learns to associate the trigger pattern with the desired class label. However, our threat
model is more strict, which is reﬂected in our constraints on . We require that is bounded in `1
norm and that i=0for all but a small fraction of indices, i. WLOG, assume that the ﬁrst MN
perturbations are allowed to be nonzero. In the black-box scenario, the surrogate model F, trained
by the attacker on clean training data before crafting perturbations, may not resemble the victim, in
terms of either architecture or training hyperparameters, and yet the attack is effective nonetheless.
We stress that unlike Saha et al. [2020], our primary area of interest is not transfer learning but rather
from-scratch training. This threat model results in a more complex optimization procedure - one
where simpler objectives, like feature collision, have failed [Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. Due to
the inner optimization problem posed in Equation 2, directly computing optimal perturbations is
intractable for deep networks as it would require differentiating through the training procedure of F.
Thus, heuristics must be used to optimize the poisons.
3.3 Our Approach
Recently, several works have proposed solving bilevel problems for deep networks by utilizing
gradient alignment . Gradient alignment modiﬁes training data to align the training gradient with
the gradient of some desired objective. It has proven useful for dataset condensation [Zhao et al.,
2021], as well as integrity and availability poisoning attacks [Geiping et al., 2021, Fowl et al., 2021a].
Unlike other heuristics like partial unrolling of the computation graph or feature collision, gradient
alignment has proven to be a stable way to solve a bilevel problem that involves training a deep
network in the inner objective. However, poisoning approaches utilizing gradient alignment have
often come with limitations, such as poor performance on multiple target images [Geiping et al.,
2021], or strict requirements about poisoning an entire dataset [Fowl et al., 2021a].
In contrast, we study the behaviour of a class of attacks capable of causing misclassiﬁcation of a large
proportion of unseen patched images of a selected class, all while modifying only a small fraction of
training data. We ﬁrst deﬁne the adversarial objective :
Ladv=E(x;y)Ds
L 
F(x+p;);yt
; (3)
whereDsdenotes the source class distribution, pis a patch that the attacker uses to trigger misclassi-
ﬁcation at test-time, and ytis the intended target label. This objective is minimized when an image
becomes misclassiﬁed into a desired class after the attacker’s patch is added to it. For example, an
attacker may aim for a network to classify images of dogs correctly but to misclassify the same dog
images as cats when a patch is added to the dog images.
To achieve this behavior, we perturb training data by optimizing the following alignment objective:
A= 1 rLtrainrLadv
jjrLtrainjjjjrLadvjj; (4)
4rLtrain =1
MMX
i=1rL 
F(xi+i;);yi
is the training gradient involving the nonzero perturbations. We then estimate the expectation in
Equation 3 by calculating the average adversarial loss over Ktraining points from the source class:
rLadv=1
KX
(x;ys)2Tr
L 
F(x+p;);yt
In our most basic attack, we begin optimizing the objective in Equation 4 by ﬁxing a parameter vector
used to calculateAthroughout crafting. This parameter vector is trained on clean data and is used
to calculate the training and adversarial gradients. We then optimize using 250steps of signed Adam.
Note that while this is not a general constraint for our method, we follow the setup in Saha et al.
[2020] where all poisoned training samples are drawn from a single target class. That is to say, the
Mpoisons the attacker is allowed to perturb have the form f(xi;yt)gM
i=1.
We also employ differentiable data augmentation which has shown to improve stability of poisons in
Geiping et al. [2021]. While gradient alignment proves more successful than other approaches to
the bilevel problem, we additionally introduce two novel techniques that boost success by >250% .
In Appendix A.1, we see that these techniques yield signiﬁcantly better estimates of the adversarial
gradients during a victim’s training run:
Poison Selection : Our threat model assumes the attacker disseminates perturbed images online
through avenues such as social media. With this in mind, the attacker can choose which images
to perturb. For example, the attacker could choose images of dogs in which to “hide” the trigger.
While random selection with our objective does successfully poison victims trained from scratch, we
experiment with selection by gradient norm . Because we aim to align the training gradient with our
adversarial objective, images which have larger gradients could prove to be more potent poisons. We
ﬁnd that choosing target poison images by taking images with the maximum training gradient norm
at the parameter vector noticeably improves poison performance (see Tables 3, 10).
Model Retraining : In the most straightforward version of our attack, the attacker optimizes the
perturbations using ﬁxed model parameters for a number of steps (usually 250). However, this may
lead to perturbations overﬁtting to a clean-trained model; during a real attack, a model is trained on
poisoned data, but we optimize the poisons on a model that is trained only with clean data. To close
the gap, we introduce model retraining during the poison crafting procedure. After retraining our
model on the perturbed data, we again take optimization steps on the perturbations, but this time
evaluating the training and adversarial losses at the new parameter vector. We repeat this process of
retraining/optimizing several times and ﬁnd that this noticeably improves the success of the poisons -
often boosting success by more than 20% (see Tables 3, 10, 11).
See Appendix A.1 for an empirical evaluation of the importance of poison selection and model
retraining for estimating the adversarial gradients of a victim. A brief description of our threat model
is found in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Sleeper Agent poison crafting procedure
Input: Training dataT=f(xi;yi)gN
i=1, trigger patch p, source label ys, target labelyt, poison budget MN,
optimization steps R, retraining factor T
Begin:
1: Train surrogate network or ensemble F(:;)on training dataT
2: SelectMsamples with label ytfromTwith highest gradient norm
3: Randomly initialize perturbations M
i=1
4:forr= 1, 2, ... ,Roptimizations steps do
5: ComputeA(;;p;y t;ys)and updateM
i=1with a step of signed Adam
6: ifrmodbR=(T+ 1)c= 0andr6=Rthen
7: Retrain Fon poisoned training data f(xi+i;yi)gM
i=1[f(xi;yi)gN
i=M+1and update
8: end if
9:end for
10:return: poison perturbations M
i=1
5Table 1: Baseline evaluations on CIFAR-10. Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255,
and poison budget is 1%of training images.
Architecture ResNet-18 MobileNetV2 VGG11
Clean model val (%) 92:31 (0:08) 88:19 (0:05) 89:00 (0:03)
Poisoned model val (%) 92:16 (0:05) 88:03 (0:05) 88:70 (0:04)
Clean model source val (%) 92:36 (0:93) 88:55 (1:64) 90:62 (1:23)
Poisoned model source val (%) 91:50 (0:88) 87:79 (1:60) 89:45 (1:19)
Poisoned model patched source val (%) 12.96 (5:40) 21.09 (5:41) 17.97 (4:00)
Attack Success Rate (%) 85.27 (5:90) 72.92 (6:09) 75.15 (5:40)
Table 2: The effect of poison budget. Experiments on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models [He et al.,
2016]. Perturbations have `1-norm16=255.
Poison Budget 50 (0.1%) 100 (0.2%) 250 (0.5%) 400 (0.6%) 500 (1%)
Clean model val (%) 92:34 (0:05) 92:36 (0:04) 92:31 (0:04) 92:15 (0:08) 92:31 (0:08)
Poisoned model val (%) 92:33 (0:04) 92:34 (0:05) 92:25 (0:04) 92:12 (0:06) 92:16 (0:05)
Clean model source val (%) 93:01 (0:69) 91:08 (0:85) 92:43 (0:74) 92:42 (0:80) 92:36 (0:93)
Poisoned model source val (%) 93:03 (0:67) 90:61 (0:86) 91:83 (0:75) 91:88 (0:79) 91:50 (0:88)
Poisoned model patched source val (%) 61.04 (4:27) 40.07 (5:72) 22.77 (4:77) 15.88 (4:91) 12.96 (5:40)
Attack Success Rate (%) 24.71 (4:10) 49.76 (6:21) 72.48 (5:24) 81.44 (5:25) 85.27 (5:90)
4 Experiments
In this section, we empirically test the proposed Sleeper Agent backdoor attack on multiple datasets,
against black-box settings, using an existing benchmark, and against popular defenses. Details
regarding the experimental setup can be found in Appendix B.
4.1 Baseline Evaluations
Typically, backdoor attacks are considered successful if poisoned models do not suffer from a
signiﬁcant drop in validation accuracy on images without triggers, but they reliably misclassify
images from the source class into the target class when a trigger is applied. We begin by testing
our method in the gray-box setting. In the gray-box setting, we use the same architecture but
different random initialization for crafting poisons and testing. Table 1 depicts the performance of
Sleeper Agent on CIFAR-10 when perturbing 1%of images in the training set with each perturbation
constrained in an `1-norm ball of radius 16=255. During poison crafting, the surrogate model
undergoes four evenly spaced retraining periods ( T= 4), and we test the effectiveness of each
surrogate model architecture at generating poisons for victim models of the same architecture. In
subsequent sections, we will extend these experiments to the black-box setting and to an ensemblized
attacker. We observe in these experiments that the poisoned models indeed achieve very similar
validation accuracy to their clean counterparts, yet the application of triggers to source class images
causes them to be misclassiﬁed into the target class as desired. In Table 2, we observe that Sleeper
Agent can even be effective when the attacker is only able to poison a very small percentage of
the training set. Note that the success of backdoor attacks depends greatly on the choice of source
and target classes, especially since some classes contain very large objects which may dominate
the image, even when a trigger is inserted. As a result, the variance of attack performance is high
since we sample class pairs randomly. The poisoning and victim hyperparameters we use for our
experiments can be found in Appendix B.
The beneﬁts of ensembling: One simple way we can improve the transferability of our backdoor
attack across initializations of the same architecture is to craft our poisons on an ensemble of multiple
copies of the same architecture but trained using different initializations and different batch sampling
during their training procedures. This behavior has also been observed in Huang et al. [2020b],
Geiping et al. [2021]. In Table 3, we observe that this ensembling strategy indeed can offer signiﬁcant
performance boosts, both with and without retraining.
The black-box setting: Now that we have established the transferability of Sleeper Agent across
models of the same architecture, we test on the hard black-box scenario where the victim’s architecture
is completely unknown to the attacker. This setting has proven extremely challenging for existing
methods [Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. Table 4 contains four settings. In the ﬁrst row, we simply
craft the poisons on a single ResNet-18 and transfer these to other models. Second, we craft poisons
6Table 3: Ensembles consisting of copies of the same architecture (ResNet-18). Sdenotes the size
of the ensemble, and Tdenotes the retraining factor. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10,
perturbations have `1-norm bounded by 16=255, and the attacker can poison 1%of training images.
Attack Clean model val (%)Poisoned model val (%)Attack Success Rate (%)
Sleeper Agent ( S= 1,T= 0) 92:36 (0:05) 92 :08 (0:08) 63 :49 (6:13)
Sleeper Agent ( S= 2,T= 0) 92:10 (0:04) 92 :12 (0:06) 64 :70 (5:65)
Sleeper Agent ( S= 4,T= 0) 92:14 (0:03) 91 :98(0:05) 74.81 (4:10)
Sleeper Agent ( S= 2,T= 4) 92:11 (0:07) 92 :08 (0:13) 87 :40 (6:23)
Sleeper Agent ( S= 4,T= 4) 92:17 (0:03) 91 :81 (0:06) 88.45 (6:00)
Table 4: Black-box attacks: First row: Attacks crafted on a single ResNet-18 and transferred.
Second row: attacks crafted on MobileNet-V2 and ResNet-34 and transferred. Third row: attacks
crafted on the remaining architectures excluding the victim. The ensemble used in the last row
includes the victim architecture. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 and perturbations have
`1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and the attacker can poison 1%of training images.
Attack ResNet-18 MobileNet-V2 VGG11 Average
Sleeper Agent ( S= 1,T= 4, ResNet-18)   29:10% 31 :96% 29:86%
Sleeper Agent ( S= 4,T= 0, MobileNet-V2, ResNet-34) 70:30%  46:48% 58:44%
Sleeper Agent ( S= 4,T= 0, victim excluded) 63:11% 42 :40% 55 :28% 53:60%
Sleeper Agent ( S= 6,T= 0, victim included) 68:46% 67 :28% 85 :37% 73:30%
on an ensemble consisting of two MobileNet-V2 and two ResNet-34 architectures and transfer to
the remaining models. Third, for each architecture, we craft poisons with an ensemble consisting
of the other two architectures and test on the remaining one. The second and third scenarios are
ensemblized black-box attacks, and we see that Sleeper Agent is effective. In the last row, we perform
the same experiment but with the testing model included in the ensemble, and we observe that a
single ensemble can craft poisons that are extremely effective on a range of architectures. We choose
ResNet-18, MobileNet-V2, and VGG11 as these are common and contain a wide array of structural
diversity [He et al., 2016, Sandler et al., 2018, Simonyan and Zisserman, 2014]. Additionally, Guo
and Liu [2020] considers the case that the attacker uses a weaker surrogate than the defender’s model.
We simulate this case by using a VGG11 surrogate and ResNet-18 target. We ﬁnd, with a 1%poison
budget on CIFAR-10, that Sleeper Agent achieves an attack success rate of 57:47%.
ImageNet evaluations: In addition to CIFAR-10, we perform experiments on ImageNet. Table 5
summarizes the performance of Sleeper Agent on ImageNet where attacks are crafted and tested on
ResNet-18 and MobileNetV2 models. Each attacker can only perturb 0:05% of training images, and
perturbations are constrained in an `1-norm ball of radius 16=255- a bound seen in prior poisoning
works on ImageNet [Fowl et al., 2021a, Geiping et al., 2021, Saha et al., 2020]. To have a strong
threat model, we use the retraining factor of two ( T= 2) so that the surrogate model is retrained
at two evenly spaced intervals. Figure 1b contains visualizations of the patched sources and the
crafted poisons. The details of models and hyperparameters can be found in Appendix B. Additional
experiments on ImageNet and further visualizations are presented in Appendices A and C.
4.2 Comparison to Other Methods
There are several existing clean-label hidden-trigger backdoor attacks that claim success in settings
different than ours. In order to further demonstrate the success of our method, we compare our
poisons to ones generated from these methods in our strict threat model of from-scratch training.
In these experiments, poisons are generated by our attack, clean label backdoor, and hidden trigger
backdoor. All poison trials have the same randomly selected source-target class pairs, the same
Table 5: ImageNet evaluations . Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and the
poison budget is 0:05% of training images.
Architecture ResNet-18 MobileNetV2
Clean model val (%) 69:76 71 :88
Poisoned model val (%) 67:84 (0:10) 68:60 (0:03)
Attack Success Rate (%) 44.00 (6:73) 41.00 (3:31)
7Table 6: Benchmark results on CIFAR-10 . Comparison of our method to popular “clean-label”
attacks. Results averaged over the same source/target pairs with = 16=255and poison budget 1%.
Attack ResNet-18 MobileNetV2 VGG11 Average
Hidden-Trigger Backdoor [Saha et al., 2020] 3:50% 3 :76% 5 :02% 4:09%
Clean-Label Backdoor [Turner et al., 2019] 2:78% 3 :50% 4 :70% 3:66%
Sleeper Agent (Ours) 78.84 % 75.96 % 86.60 % 80.47 %
budget, and the same "-bound (Note: clean-label backdoor originally did not use `1bounds, so we
adjust the opacity of their perturbations to ensure the constraint is satisﬁed). We then train a randomly
initialized network from scratch on these poisons and evaluate success over 1000 patched source
images. We test three popular architectures and ﬁnd that our attack signiﬁcantly outperforms both
methods and is the only backdoor method to exceed single digit success rates, conﬁrming the ﬁndings
of Schwarzschild et al. [2021] on the fragility of these existing methods. See Table 6 for full results.
4.3 Defenses
A selling point for hidden trigger backdoor attacks is that the trigger that is used to induce misclas-
siﬁcation at test-time is not present in any training data, thus making inspection based defenses, or
automated pattern matching more difﬁcult. However, there exist numerous defenses, aside from
visual inspection, that have been proposed to mitigate the effects of poisoning - both backdoor and
other attacks. We test our method against a number of popular defenses.
Spectral Signatures : This defense, proposed in Tran et al. [2018], aims to ﬁlter a pre-selected
amount of training data based upon correlations with singular vectors of the feature covariance matrix.
This defense was originally intended to detect triggers used in backdoor attacks.
Activation Clustering : Chen et al. [2019] clusters activation patterns to detect anomalous inputs.
Unlike the spectral signatures defense, this defense does not ﬁlter a pre-selected volume of data.
DPSGD : Poison defenses based on differentially private SGD [Abadi et al., 2016] have also been
proposed [Hong et al., 2020]. Differentially private learning inures models to small changes in
training data, which provably imbues robustness to poisoned data.
Data Augmentations : Recent work has suggested that strong data augmentations, such as mixup,
break data poisoning [Borgnia et al., 2021]. This has been conﬁrmed in recent benchmark tests
which demonstrate many poisoning techniques are brittle to slight changes in victim training routine
[Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. We test against mixup augmentation [Zhang et al., 2018].
STRIP : Gao et al. [2019] proposes to add strong perturbations by superimposing input images at test
time to detect the backdoored inputs based on the entropy of the predicted class distribution. If the
entropy is lower than a predeﬁned threshold, the input is considered backdoored and is rejected.
NeuralCleanse : Wang et al. [2019] proposes a defense designed for traditional backdoor attacks by
reconstructing the maximally adversarial trigger used to backdoor a model. While this defense was
not designed for hidden trigger backdoor attacks, we experiment with this as a detection defense
wherein we test whether NeuralCleanse can detect the backdoored class. This modiﬁcation is denoted
by NeuralCleanse\*. In our trials, NeuralCleanse\* does not successfully detect any of the backdoored
classes - as determined by taking the maximum mask MAD (see Wang et al. [2019]). Neural
Cleanse does not produce an anomaly score >2(their characterization of detecting outliers) for the
backdoored class in anyof our experiments.
We ﬁnd that across the board, all of these defenses exhibit a robustness-accuracy trade-off. Many
of these defenses do not reliably nullify the attack, and defenses that do degrade attack success also
induce such a large drop in validation accuracy that they are unattractive options for practitioners.
For example, to lower the attack success to an average of 13:14%, training with DPSGD degrades
natural accuracy on CIFAR-10 to 70%. See Table 7 for the complete results of these experiments.
Additional evaluations on recent defenses are presented in Appendix A.6.
8Table 7: Defenses . Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models, perturbations
have`1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and poison budget is 1%of training images.
Defense Attack Success Rate (%)Validation Accuracy (%)
Spectral Signatures 37:17 (10:10) 89 :94 (0:19)
Activation Clustering 15:17 (5:38) 72 :38 (0:48)
DPSGD 13:14 (4:49) 70 :00 (0:17)
Data Augmentation 69:75 (10:77) 91 :32 (0:12)
STRIP 62:68 (4:90) 92 :23 (0:05)
NeuralCleanse\* 85:27 (5:90) 92 :31 (0:08)
Table 8: Random poisons . Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models.
Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255and poisons are drawn from all classes.
Attack Poison budget Attack Success Rate (%)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 4) 1% 41.90 (7:16)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 4) 3% 66.51 (6:90)
4.4 Sleeper Agent Can Poison Images in Any Class
Typical backdoor attacks which rely on label ﬂips or feature collisions can only function when poisons
come from the source and/or target classes [Saha et al., 2020, Turner et al., 2019]. This restriction
may be a serious limitation in practice. In contrast, we show that Sleeper Agent can be effective even
when we poison images drawn from all classes. To take advantage of our data selection strategy, we
select poisons with maximum gradient norm across all classes. Table 8 contains the performance of
Sleeper Agent in the aforementioned setting.
4.5 Evaluations Under Hard `1-norm Constraints
While existing works on backdoor attacks consider poisons with `1-norm bounded above by 16=255
as an imperceptible threat [Saha et al., 2020, Turner et al., 2019], Nguyen and Tran [2020] shows that
human inspection can detect poisoned samples effectively. This inspection might mitigate the threat
of large perturbations. To bypass this possibility, we conduct our baseline experiments on CIFAR-10
using perturbations with small `1-norms. From Table 9, we observe that our threat model is effective
even with an `1-norm bounded above by 8=255. Visualizations can be found in Appendix C.
4.6 Ablation Studies
Here, we analyze the importance of each technique in our algorithm via ablation studies. We focus
on three aspects of our method: 1) patch location, 2) retraining during poison crafting, 3) poison
selection, and 4) retraining factor. Table 10 details the combinations and their effects on poison
success. We ﬁnd that randomizing patch location improves poisoning success, and both retraining and
data selection based on maximum gradient signiﬁcantly improve poison performance. Combining all
three boosts poison success more than four-fold. To further show the importance of retraining, we
conduct more experiments with and without retraining on ImageNet. From Table 11, we infer that
retraining is essential. Additional ablations studies are found in Appendix A.
Table 9: Evaluation under different `1-norm . Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with
ResNet-18 models, and the poison budget is 1%of training images.
Perturbation `1-norm Attack Success Rate (%)
8=255 37 :32 (8:33)
10=255 55 :75 (8:12)
12=255 63 :31 (8:84)
14=255 78 :03 (7:13)
16=255 85 :27 (5:90)
9Table 10: CIFAR-10 ablation studies. Investigation of the effects of random patch-location, re-
training, and data selection. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models,
perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and poison budget is 1%of training images.
Attack setup Attack Success Rate (%)
Fix patch-location (bottom-right corner) 19:25 (3:01)
Random patch-location 33:95 (4:57)
Random patch-location + retraining 59:42 (5:78)
Random patch-location + data selection 63:49 (6:13)
Random patch-location + retraining + data selection 85.27 (5:90)
Table 11: ImageNet ablation studies . Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and
the poison budget is 0:05% of training images.
Attack Attack Success Rate (%)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 0) 22:00 (5:65)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) 44.00 (6:73)
5 Broader Impact and Limitations
In this work, we illuminate a new scalable backdoor attack that could be used to stealthily compromise
security-critical systems. We hope that by highlighting the potential danger of this nefarious threat
model, our work will give rise to stronger defenses and will encourage caution on the part of
practitioners.
While on average, our method is effective, the variance is large, and the success of our method
can range from almost all patched images being misclassiﬁed to low success. This behavior has
previously been observed in Schwarzschild et al. [2021]. In real-world scenarios, datasets are often
noisy and imbalanced, so training behavior may be mysterious. As a result, practitioners should be
cautious in their expectations that methods developed on datasets like CIFAR-10 and ImageNet will
work on their own problems.
6 Conclusion
In this work, we present the ﬁrst hidden-trigger backdoor attack that is effective against deep networks
trained from scratch. This is a challenging setting for backdoor attacks, and existing attacks typically
operate in less strict settings. Nonetheless, we choose the strict setting because practitioners often
train networks from scratch in real-world applications, and patched poisons may be easily visible
upon human inspection. In order to accomplish the above goal, we use a gradient matching objective
as a surrogate for the bilevel optimization problem, and we add features such as re-training and data
selection in order to signiﬁcantly enhance the performance of our method, Sleeper Agent.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by DARPA GARD under contracts #HR00112020007 and HR001119S0026-
GARD-FP-052, the DARPA YFA program, the ONR MURI Program under the Grant N00014-20-
1-2787, and the National Science Foundation DMS program. Further support was provided by JP
Morgan Chase and Capital One Bank.
References
Martin Abadi, Andy Chu, Ian Goodfellow, H Brendan McMahan, Ilya Mironov, Kunal Talwar, and
Li Zhang. Deep learning with differential privacy. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC
conference on computer and communications security , pages 308–318, 2016.
Eugene Bagdasaryan, Andreas Veit, Yiqing Hua, Deborah Estrin, and Vitaly Shmatikov. How to
backdoor federated learning. In International Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Statistics ,
pages 2938–2948. PMLR, 2020.
10Mauro Barni, Kassem Kallas, and Benedetta Tondi. A new backdoor attack in cnns by training set
corruption without label poisoning. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing
(ICIP) , pages 101–105. IEEE, 2019.
Battista Biggio, Blaine Nelson, and Pavel Laskov. Poisoning attacks against support vector machines.
InProceedings of the 29th International Coference on International Conference on Machine
Learning , pages 1467–1474, 2012.
Eitan Borgnia, Jonas Geiping, Valeriia Cherepanova, Liam Fowl, Arjun Gupta, Amin Ghiasi, Furong
Huang, Micah Goldblum, and Tom Goldstein. Dp-instahide: Provably defusing poisoning and
backdoor attacks with differentially private data augmentations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.02079 ,
2021.
Bryant Chen, Wilka Carvalho, Nathalie Baracaldo, Heiko Ludwig, Benjamin Edwards, Taesung
Lee, Ian Molloy, and Biplav Srivastava. Detecting backdoor attacks on deep neural networks by
activation clustering. In SafeAI@ AAAI , 2019.
Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, Bo Li, Kimberly Lu, and Dawn Song. Targeted backdoor attacks on deep
learning systems using data poisoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05526 , 2017.
Ji Feng, Qi-Zhi Cai, and Zhi-Hua Zhou. Learning to confuse: generating training time adversarial
data with auto-encoder. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 32, 2019.
Liam Fowl, Ping-yeh Chiang, Micah Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, Arpit Bansal, Wojtek Czaja, and Tom
Goldstein. Preventing unauthorized use of proprietary data: Poisoning for secure dataset release.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.02683 , 2021a.
Liam Fowl, Micah Goldblum, Ping-yeh Chiang, Jonas Geiping, Wojciech Czaja, and Tom Goldstein.
Adversarial examples make strong poisons. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
34:30339–30351, 2021b.
Yansong Gao, Change Xu, Derui Wang, Shiping Chen, Damith C Ranasinghe, and Surya Nepal.
Strip: A defence against trojan attacks on deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the 35th Annual
Computer Security Applications Conference , pages 113–125, 2019.
Jonas Geiping, Liam Fowl, W Ronny Huang, Wojciech Czaja, Gavin Taylor, Michael Moeller, and
Tom Goldstein. Witches’ brew: Industrial scale data poisoning via gradient matching. ICLR , 2021.
Micah Goldblum, Dimitris Tsipras, Chulin Xie, Xinyun Chen, Avi Schwarzschild, Dawn Song,
Aleksander Madry, Bo Li, and Tom Goldstein. Dataset security for machine learning: Data
poisoning, backdoor attacks, and defenses. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence , 2022.
Tianyu Gu, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. Badnets: Identifying vulnerabilities in the
machine learning model supply chain. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.06733 , 2017.
Junfeng Guo and Cong Liu. Practical poisoning attacks on neural networks. In European Conference
on Computer Vision , pages 142–158. Springer, 2020.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image
recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ,
pages 770–778, 2016.
Sanghyun Hong, Varun Chandrasekaran, Yi ˘gitcan Kaya, Tudor Dumitra¸ s, and Nicolas Papernot.
On the effectiveness of mitigating data poisoning attacks with gradient shaping. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2002.11497 , 2020.
Hanxun Huang, Xingjun Ma, Sarah Monazam Erfani, James Bailey, and Yisen Wang. Unlearn-
able examples: Making personal data unexploitable. In International Conference on Learning
Representations , 2020a.
W Ronny Huang, Jonas Geiping, Liam Fowl, Gavin Taylor, and Tom Goldstein. Metapoison: Practical
general-purpose clean-label data poisoning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
33:12080–12091, 2020b.
11Shaofeng Li, Benjamin Zi Hao Zhao, Jiahao Yu, Minhui Xue, Dali Kaafar, and Haojin Zhu. Invisible
backdoor attacks against deep neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.02742 , 2019.
Shaofeng Li, Minhui Xue, Benjamin Zhao, Haojin Zhu, and Xinpeng Zhang. Invisible backdoor
attacks on deep neural networks via steganography and regularization. IEEE Transactions on
Dependable and Secure Computing , 2020.
Yige Li, Xixiang Lyu, Nodens Koren, Lingjuan Lyu, Bo Li, and Xingjun Ma. Anti-backdoor learning:
Training clean models on poisoned data. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 34:
14900–14912, 2021a.
Yiming Li, Yong Jiang, Zhifeng Li, and Shu-Tao Xia. Backdoor learning: A survey. IEEE Transac-
tions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems , 2022.
Yuezun Li, Yiming Li, Baoyuan Wu, Longkang Li, Ran He, and Siwei Lyu. Invisible backdoor
attack with sample-speciﬁc triggers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision , pages 16463–16472, 2021b.
Yingqi Liu, Shiqing Ma, Yousra Aafer, Wen-Chuan Lee, Juan Zhai, Weihang Wang, and Xiangyu
Zhang. Trojaning attack on neural networks. 2017.
Yunfei Liu, Xingjun Ma, James Bailey, and Feng Lu. Reﬂection backdoor: A natural backdoor attack
on deep neural networks. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 182–199. Springer,
2020.
Luis Muñoz-González, Battista Biggio, Ambra Demontis, Andrea Paudice, Vasin Wongrassamee,
Emil C. Lupu, and Fabio Roli. Towards Poisoning of Deep Learning Algorithms with Back-
gradient Optimization. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Workshop on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and
Security , AISec ’17, pages 27–38, New York, NY , USA, 2017. ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-5202-4.
doi: 10.1145/3128572.3140451.
Tuan Anh Nguyen and Anh Tuan Tran. Wanet-imperceptible warping-based backdoor attack. In
International Conference on Learning Representations , 2020.
Olga Russakovsky, Jia Deng, Hao Su, Jonathan Krause, Sanjeev Satheesh, Sean Ma, Zhiheng Huang,
Andrej Karpathy, Aditya Khosla, Michael Bernstein, et al. Imagenet large scale visual recognition
challenge. International journal of computer vision , 115(3):211–252, 2015.
Aniruddha Saha, Akshayvarun Subramanya, and Hamed Pirsiavash. Hidden trigger backdoor attacks.
InProceedings of the AAAI conference on artiﬁcial intelligence , volume 34, pages 11957–11965,
2020.
Mark Sandler, Andrew Howard, Menglong Zhu, Andrey Zhmoginov, and Liang-Chieh Chen. Mo-
bilenetv2: Inverted residuals and linear bottlenecks. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 4510–4520, 2018.
Avi Schwarzschild, Micah Goldblum, Arjun Gupta, John P Dickerson, and Tom Goldstein. Just
how toxic is data poisoning? a uniﬁed benchmark for backdoor and data poisoning attacks. In
International Conference on Machine Learning , pages 9389–9398. PMLR, 2021.
Ali Shafahi, W Ronny Huang, Mahyar Najibi, Octavian Suciu, Christoph Studer, Tudor Dumitras,
and Tom Goldstein. Poison frogs! targeted clean-label poisoning attacks on neural networks.
Advances in neural information processing systems , 31, 2018.
Juncheng Shen, Xiaolei Zhu, and De Ma. Tensorclog: An imperceptible poisoning attack on deep
neural network applications. IEEE Access , 7:41498–41506, 2019.
Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image
recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556 , 2014.
Jacob Steinhardt, Pang Wei W Koh, and Percy S Liang. Certiﬁed Defenses for Data Poisoning
Attacks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30 , pages 3517–3529. Curran
Associates, Inc., 2017.
12Brandon Tran, Jerry Li, and Aleksander Madry. Spectral signatures in backdoor attacks. Advances in
neural information processing systems , 31, 2018.
Alexander Turner, Dimitris Tsipras, and Aleksander Madry. Label-consistent backdoor attacks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1912.02771 , 2019.
Bolun Wang, Yuanshun Yao, Shawn Shan, Huiying Li, Bimal Viswanath, Haitao Zheng, and Ben Y
Zhao. Neural cleanse: Identifying and mitigating backdoor attacks in neural networks. In 2019
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 707–723. IEEE, 2019.
Emily Wenger, Josephine Passananti, Arjun Nitin Bhagoji, Yuanshun Yao, Haitao Zheng, and Ben Y
Zhao. Backdoor attacks against deep learning systems in the physical world. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 6206–6215, 2021.
Dongxian Wu and Yisen Wang. Adversarial neuron pruning puriﬁes backdoored deep models.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 34:16913–16925, 2021.
Hongyi Zhang, Moustapha Cisse, Yann N Dauphin, and David Lopez-Paz. mixup: Beyond empirical
risk minimization. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2018.
Bo Zhao, Konda Reddy Mopuri, and Hakan Bilen. Dataset condensation with gradient matching. In
Ninth International Conference on Learning Representations 2021 , 2021.
Chen Zhu, W Ronny Huang, Hengduo Li, Gavin Taylor, Christoph Studer, and Tom Goldstein.
Transferable clean-label poisoning attacks on deep neural nets. In International Conference on
Machine Learning , pages 7614–7623. PMLR, 2019.
13A Additional Experiments
A.1 Gradient Alignment Throughout Training
In order to demonstrate that the gradients of the poison examples are well aligned with the adversarial
gradient throughout the training of the victim model, we visualize the cosine similarity between the
adversarial gradient and the poison examples in multiple settings across epochs of training. Figure 2
contains three experiments. First, we train a clean model where the attack’s success rate is very low
(almost zero). Second, we train a poisoned model without data selection or retraining. And third,
we employ poisons that have been generated utilizing data selection and retraining techniques. As
shown in Table 10, the average attack success rate for the second and third experiments is 33:95% and
85:27%, respectively. Figure 2 shows that a successful attack yields far superior gradient alignment
and hence a high attack success rate. In addition, these experiments demonstrate that gradient
alignment, data selection, and retraining all work together collaboratively.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Epoch0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Cosine Similaritypoisoned model (with data selection and retraining)
poisoned model (without data selection and retraining)
clean model
Figure 2: Cosine Similarity, per epoch, between the adversarial gradient rLadvand gradient of the
poison examples (clean examples from the target class in the case of clean model training) rLtrain
for two different poisoned models and a clean model. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with
ResNet-18 models.
A.2 Patch Choice
Sleeper Agent is designed in a way that the backdoor attack is efﬁcient for any random patch the threat
model uses for crafting poisons. To show this, we conduct the same baseline experiments discussed
in Section 4.1 using different random patches that are generated using a Bernoulli distribution. From
Table 12, we observe that the choice of the patch does not affect Sleeper Agent’s success rate. Figure
3 depicts few samples of the random patches we use for the experiments presented in Table 12.
Table 12: Baseline evaluations using random patches on CIFAR-10. Perturbations have `1-norm
bounded above by 16=255, and poison budget is 1%of training images. Each number denotes an
average (and standard error) over 24independent crafting and training runs along with randomly
sampled source/target class pairs. Each run has a unique patch generated randomly.
Architecture ResNet-18
Clean model val(%) 92:16 (0:08)
Poisoned model val (%) 92:00 (0:07)
Clean model source val (%) 92:55 (0:98)
Poisoned model source val (%) 91:77 (1:09)
Poisoned model patched source val (%) 14.86 (5:06)
Attack Success Rate (%) 82.05 (5:80)
14Figure 3: Sample random patches
A.3 Patch Size
To investigate the effect of patch size on the attack success rate, we perform the baseline evaluation
discussed in Section 4.1 using different patch sizes. From Table 13, we observe that by poisoning only
0:05% of the training set and using a larger patch, we can effectively poison ImageNet. Furthermore,
by using a proper amount of perturbation, Sleeper Agent works well with the smaller patches on both
CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets. Visualizations of patched sources using different patch sizes are
shown in Figure 9.
Table 13: The effect of patch size . Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets
with ResNet-18 models. Visualizations of different patched sources from ImageNet dataset can be
found in Figure 9.
Attack Dataset Poison budget Patch size `1-norm Attack Success Rate (%)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 4) CIFAR-10 1% 66 20=255 64 :78
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 4) CIFAR-10 1% 88 16=255 85 :27
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) ImageNet 0:05% 2525 16=255 38 :00
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) ImageNet 0:05% 2525 24=255 52 :00
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) ImageNet 0:05% 3030 16=255 44 :00
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) ImageNet 0:05% 4545 16=255 50 :50
A.4 More Evaluations on ImageNet
In addition to the experiments in Section 4.1 and Appendix A.3, we provide more evaluations on
ImageNet dataset focusing on low poison budget and smaller `1-norm constraint. The evaluation
results are listed in Table 14. The results indicate that our proposed threat model is still effective by
poisoning only 250 images in the ImageNet trainset. Additionally, under the hard `1-norm constraint
of8=255, Sleeper Agent has a partial success of one out of four (signiﬁcantly better than random
guess with a success rate of 0:001on ImageNet).
Table 14: ImageNet evaluations . Experiments are conducted on ResNet-18 models.
Attack Perturbation `1-norm Poison budget Attack Success Rate (%)
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) 8/255 0:05% (500 images) 28:00
Sleeper Agent (S = 1, T = 2) 16=255 0 :025% (250 images) 27:33
A.5 Retraining Factor
Table 15 demonstrates the effect of the retraining factor on the attack success rate on the CIFAR-10
dataset. For Tlarger than 4, we do not see a considerable improvement in the attack success rate.
Since increasing Tis costly, we choose T= 4as it simultaneously gives us a high success rate and
is also signiﬁcantly faster than T= 8. We observe that even with T= 4, the attack success rate is
above 95% in most trials
15Table 15: Ablation studies on retraining factor . Investigation of the effects of retraining factor
T. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models, perturbations have `1-norm
bounded above by 16=255, and the poison budget is 1%of training images.
Retraining factor Attack Success Rate (%)
T= 0 63 :49 (6:13)
T= 2 70 :66 (6:66)
T= 4 85 :27 (5:90)
T= 8 86 :48 (6:26)
A.6 Additional Defenses
In addition to the defenses evaluated in Section 4.3, we evaluate Sleeper Agent on two recent defenses,
ABL [Li et al., 2021a] and ANP [Wu and Wang, 2021]. We evaluate against ANP with various
threshold values, and we report the accuracy of a ResNet-18 on CIFAR-10, where Sleeper Agent
poisons have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255. We ﬁnd that ANP cannot achieve a low attack
success rate without greatly reducing the model’s validation accuracy on clean data. Similarly, we
ﬁnd that ABL must decrease accuracy substantially to remove the backdoor vulnerability. Even after
20 epochs of unlearning, Sleeper Agent has nearly a 60% success rate. See Tables 16 and 17 for the
complete results of these experiments.
Table 16: Adversarial Neuron Pruning (ANP) . We test Sleeper Agent against the defense, ANP
[Wu and Wang, 2021], across various threshold levels. We see here that high threshold values can
decrease the attack success rate but at a high cost in validation accuracy. Experiments are conducted
on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models. Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255.
Defense Threshold Validation Accuracy (%)Attack Success Rate (%)
None - 92:31 85 :27
ANP 0.05 80:05 51 :03
ANP 0.10 71:75 27 :87
ANP 0.15 50:47 17 :77
ANP 0.20 16:56 3 :35
Table 17: Anti-Backdoor Learning (ABL) . We test Sleeper Agent against the defense, ABL [Li
et al., 2021a], across various numbers of unlearning epochs. We see here that many unlearning
epochs can decrease the attack success rate but at a high cost in validation accuracy. Experiments are
conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models. Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by
16=255.
Defense Unlearning Epochs Validation Accuracy (%)Attack Success Rate (%)
None - 92:31 85 :27
ABL 5 87:53 70 :72
ABL 10 86:85 68 :35
ABL 15 82:34 64 :11
ABL 20 64:55 59 :51
Table 18: Adversarial Training . We test Sleeper Agent against adversarial training via PGD with
a perturbation radius of 4=255. Experiments are conducted on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models.
Poison perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255.
Defense Validation Accuracy (%)Attack Success Rate (%)
None 92:31 85 :27
Adv. Training 88:63 52 :83
16B Implementation Details
B.1 Experimental Setup
The most challenging setting for evaluating a backdoor attack targets victim models that are trained
from scratch [Schwarzschild et al., 2021]. On the other hand, it is crucial to compute the average
attack success rate on all patched source images in the validation set to evaluate effectiveness reliably.
Hence, to evaluate our backdoor attack, we ﬁrst poison a training set using a surrogate model as
described in Algorithm 1, then the victim model is trained in a standard fashion on the poisoned
training set from scratch with random initialization. After the victim model is trained, to compute the
attack success rate , we measure the average rate at which patched source images are successfully
classiﬁed as the target class. To be consistent and to provide a fair comparison to Saha et al. [2020], in
our primary experiments, we use a random patch selected from Saha et al. [2020] as shown in Figure
4. In our baseline experiments, following Saha et al. [2020], the patch size is 88for CIFAR-10
(6:25% of the pixels) and 3030for the ImageNet ( 1:79% of the pixels). Note that the choice of
the patch in our implementation is not essential, and our model is effective across randomly selected
patches (see Appendix A.2). More experiments on smaller patch sizes are presented in Appendix A.3.
Figure 4: The trigger we use in our primary experiments.
B.2 Models and Hyperparameters
For our evaluations, we use ResNet-18, ResNet-34, MobileNet-v2, and VGG11 [He et al., 2016,
Sandler et al., 2018, Simonyan and Zisserman, 2014]. For training ResNet-18 and ResNet-34, we
use initial learning rate 0:1, and for MobileNet-v2 and VGG11, we use initial learning rate 0:01. We
schedule learning rate drops at epochs 14,24, and 35by a factor of 0:1. For all models, we employ
SGD with Nesterov momentum, and we set the momentum coefﬁcient to 0:9. We use batches of 128
images and weight decay with a coefﬁcient of 410 4. For all CIFAR-10 experiments, we train
and retrain for 40epochs, and for validation, we train the re-initialized model for 80 epochs. For the
ImageNet experiments, we employ pre-trained models from torchvision to start crafting, and for
retraining and validation, we apply a similar procedure explained: training for 80 epochs for both
retraining and validation while we schedule learning rate drops at epochs 30, 50, and 70 by a factor
of 0.1. To incorporate data augmentation, for CIFAR-10, we apply horizontal ﬂips with probability
0:5and random crops of size 3232with zero-padding of 4. And for the ImageNet, we use the
following data augmentations: 1) resize to 256256, 2) central crop of size 224224, 3) horizontal
ﬂip with probability 0:5, 4) random crops of size 224224with zero-padding of 28.
B.3 Implementation of Benchmark Experiments
In Section 4.2 we compared our threat model with Clean-Label Backdoor Turner et al. [2019] and
Hidden-Trigger Backdoor Saha et al. [2020]. For both methods, We follow the same procedure used
in their papers as described in Schwarzschild et al. [2021]. Speciﬁcally, to reproduce the clean-label
attack, we use the implementation code provided in Schwarzschild et al. [2021]. To get each poison,
we compute the PGD-based adversarial perturbation to each image, and then the trigger is added to
the image [Schwarzschild et al., 2021, Turner et al., 2019].
B.4 Defense Details
In Section 4.3, we test a variety of defenses against our proposed attack. For ﬁltering-based defenses,
such as SS, AC, we craft the poisons as usual (according to Algorithm 1). We then train a model on
the poisoned data. After this, we apply one of the selected defenses to identify what training data
may have been poisoned. We then remove the detected samples, and retrain a \*second\* network
from scratch on the remaining data. Finally, we evaluate the attack success rate (on the backdoored
class) using this second network. For STRIP, we simply apply the defense at test time for the ﬁrst
17101 102 5 6789 20 30 40 50 60708090 200 300
Time (Minutes)6065707580859095Average Attack Success Rate (%)T=0, S=1
T=0, S=2
T=0, S=4
T=4, S=1
T=4, S=2
T=4, S=4Figure 5: Average poisoning time for various Sleeper Agent setups. All experiments are conducted
on CIFAR-10 with ResNet-18 models. Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and
the poison budget is 1%of training images. Tdenotes the training factor and Sdenotes the ensemble
size.
101 2 3 4 5 6 789 20 30 40 50
Time (Hours)1520253035404550Average Attack Success Rate (%)T=0, S=1
T=2, S=1
Figure 6: Average poisoning time for various Sleeper Agent setups. All experiments are conducted on
ImageNet with ResNet-18 models. Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and the
poison budget is 0:05% of training images. Tdenotes the training factor and Sdenotes the ensemble
size.
network, and ﬁlter out any patched images that exceed an entropy threshold in their predictions. In
this case, an attack is considered a success if a backdoored input is not detected at test time, \*and\*
misclassiﬁed as the target class.
B.5 Runtime Cost
We use two NVIDIA GEFORCE RTX 2080 Ti GPUs for baseline evaluations on CIFAR-10 and two
to four NVIDIA GEFORCE RTX 3090 GPUs for ImageNet baseline evaluations depending on the
network size. Figures 5 and 6 show the time cost of Sleeper Agent with different settings.
C Visualizations
In this section, we present more visualizations of the successful attacks on CIFAR-10 and ImagNet
datasets. Figures 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 show patched sources and poisoned targets generated by Sleeper
Agent on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet. We observe that the generated perturbed images and their
corresponding clean images are hardly distinguishable by the human eye, especially in the last
column of Figure 11 where the `1-norm of perturbation is bounded above by 8=255.
18Figure 7: Visualizations of the successful attacks on the ImageNet dataset. Each row includes the
clean source, patched source, clean target, and poisoned target, respectively. Perturbations have
`1-norm bounded above by 16=255, and the patch size is 30.
19Figure 8: Visualizations of the successful attacks on the CIFAR-10 dataset. Each row includes the
clean source, patched source, clean target, and poisoned target, respectively. Perturbations have
`1-norm bounded above by 16=255and the patch size is 8. Here, patches are randomly generated as
described in Appendix A.2.
20(a) Patch size = 25
(b) Patch size = 30 (baseline)
(c) Patch size = 45
Figure 9: Sample clean source (ﬁrst column), patched source (second column), clean target (third
column), and poisoned target (fourth column) from the ImageNet dataset with different trigger size.
Perturbations have `1-norm bounded above by 16=255.
21(a)= 8
(b)= 10
(c)= 12
(d)= 14
(e)= 16
Figure 10: Sample clean source (ﬁrst column), patched source (second column), clean target (third
column), and poisoned target (fourth column) from the CIFAR-10 dataset with different `1-norm
perturbation.
22(a)= 16
 (b)= 14
 (c)= 10
 (d)= 8
Figure 11: Visualization of clean targets (ﬁrst row) and poisoned targets (second row) with different
`1-norms from the CIFAR-10 dataset.
23