3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-412: Unrestricted Externally Accessible Lock (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/412.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-412: Unrestricted Externally Accessible Lock
Weakness ID: 412
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product properly checks for the existence of a lock, but the lock can be externally controlled or influenced by an actor that is
outside of the intended sphere of control.
 Extended Description
This prevents the product from acting on associated resources or performing other behaviors that are controlled by the presence of
the lock. Relevant locks might include an exclusive lock or mutex, or modifying a shared resource that is treated as a lock. If the lock
can be held for an indefinite period of time, then the denial of service could be permanent.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
CanAlsoBe 410 Insuf ficient Resource Pool
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 411 Resource Locking Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
When an attacker can control a lock, the program may wait indefinitely until the attacker releases the
lock, causing a denial of service to other users of the program. This is especially problematic if there is a
blocking operation on the lock.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code tries to obtain a lock for a file, then writes to it.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function writeToLog($message){
$logfile = fopen("logFile.log", "a");
//attempt to get logfile lock
if (flock($logfile, LOCK\_EX)) {
fwrite($logfile,$message);
// unlock logfile
flock($logfile, LOCK\_UN);
}
else {
print "Could not obtain lock on logFile.log, message not recorded\n";
}
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-412: Unrestricted Externally Accessible Lock (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/412.html 2/3PHP by default will wait indefinitely until a file lock is released. If an attacker is able to obtain the file lock, this code will pause
execution, possibly leading to denial of service for other users. Note that in this case, if an attacker can perform an flock() on the file,
they may already have privileges to destroy the log file. However , this still impacts the execution of other programs that depend on
flock().
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0682 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a mutex.
CVE-2002-1914 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a lock on a critical output file.
CVE-2002-1915 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a lock on a critical output file.
CVE-2002-0051 Critical file can be opened with exclusive read access by user , preventing application of security policy .
Possibly related to improper permissions, large-window race condition.
CVE-2000-0338 Chain: predictable file names used for locking, allowing attacker to create the lock beforehand.
Resultant from permissions and randomness.
CVE-2000-1198 Chain: Lock files with predictable names. Resultant from randomness.
CVE-2002-1869 Product does not check if it can write to a log file, allowing attackers to avoid logging by accessing the
file using an exclusive lock. Overlaps unchecked error condition. This is not quite CWE-412 , but close.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Use any access control that is of fered by the functionality that is of fering the lock.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Use unpredictable names or identifiers for the locks. This might not always be possible or feasible.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider modifying your code to use non-blocking synchronization methods.
 Detection Methods
White Box
Automated code analysis techniques might not be able to reliably detect this weakness, since the application's behavior and
general security model dictate which resource locks are critical. Interpretation of the weakness might require knowledge of the
environment, e.g. if the existence of a file is used as a lock, but the file is created in a world-writable directory .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 361 7PK - Time and State
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 853 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 10 - Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 989 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Lock
MemberOf 1143 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 09. Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This overlaps Insuf ficient Resource Pool when the "pool" is of size 1. It can also be resultant from race conditions, although the
timing window could be quite large in some cases.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unrestricted Critical Resource Lock
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Deadlock
}
fclose($logFile);3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-412: Unrestricted Externally Accessible Lock (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/412.html 3/3OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)LCK00-J Use private final lock objects to synchronize classes that may
interact with untrusted code
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)LCK07-J Avoid deadlock by requesting and releasing locks in the same
order
Software Fault Patterns SFP22 Unrestricted lock
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-25 Forced Deadlock
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2008-08-29 KDM Analytics
suggested clarification of description and observed examples, which were vague and inconsistent.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names