3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1342: Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1342.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1342: Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after T ransient
Execution
Weakness ID: 1342
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The processor does not properly clear microarchitectural state after incorrect microcode assists or speculative execution, resulting in
transient execution.
 Extended Description
In many processor architectures an exception, mis-speculation, or microcode assist results in a flush operation to clear results that are
no longer required. This action prevents these results from influencing architectural state that is intended to be visible from software.
However , traces of this transient execution may remain in microarchitectural buf fers, resulting in a change in microarchitectural state
that can expose sensitive information to an attacker using side-channel analysis. For example, Load V alue Injection (L VI) [REF-1202 ]
can exploit direct injection of erroneous values into intermediate load and store buf fers.
Several conditions may need to be fulfilled for a successful attack:
1. incorrect transient execution that results in remanence of sensitive information;
2. attacker has the ability to provoke microarchitectural exceptions;
3. operations and structures in victim code that can be exploited must be identified.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1201 Core and Compute Issues
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Requirements
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: W orkstation (Undetermined Prevalence)
x86 (Undetermined Prevalence)
ARM (Undetermined Prevalence)
Other (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact LikelihoodAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1342: Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1342.html 2/4Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Medium3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1342: Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1342.html 3/4
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Faulting loads in a victim domain may trigger incorrect transient forwarding, which leaves secret-dependent traces in the
microarchitectural state. Consider this example from [ REF-1203 ].
Consider the code gadget:
A processor with this weakness will store the value of untrusted\_arg (which may be provided by an attacker) to the stack, which is
trusted memory . Additionally , this store operation will save this value in some microarchitectural buf fer, e.g. the store queue.
In this code gadget, trusted\_ptr is dereferenced while the attacker forces a page fault. The faulting load causes the processor to mis-
speculate by forwarding untrusted\_arg as the (speculative) load result. The processor then uses untrusted\_arg for the pointer
dereference. After the fault has been handled and the load has been re-issued with the correct argument, secret-dependent
information stored at the address of trusted\_ptr remains in microarchitectural state and can be extracted by an attacker using a code
gadget.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-0551 Load value injection in some processors utilizing speculative execution may allow an authenticated
user to enable information disclosure via a side-channel with local access.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Hardware ensures that no illegal data flows from faulting micro-ops exists at the microarchitectural level.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Being implemented in silicon it is expected to fully address the known weaknesses with limited performance impact.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Include instructions that explicitly remove traces of unneeded computations from software interactions with microarchitectural
elements e.g. lfence, sfence, mfence, clflush.
Effectiveness: High
Note: This ef fectively forces the processor to complete each memory access before moving on to the next operation. This may
have a large performance impact.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-1342 differs from CWE-1303 , which is related to misprediction and biasing microarchitectural components, while CWE-1342
addresses illegal data flows and retention. For example, Spectre is an instance of CWE-1303 biasing branch prediction to steer the
transient execution indirectly .
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are closely analyzing this entry and others to improve CWE's coverage of
transient execution weaknesses, which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks. Additional investigation may
include other weaknesses related to microarchitectural state. As a result, this entry might change significantly in CWE 4.10.
 Related Attack Patterns
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void call\_victim(size\_t untrusted\_arg) {
\*arg\_copy = untrusted\_arg;
array[\*\*trusted\_ptr \* 4096];
}3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1342: Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1342.html 4/4CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-696 Load V alue Injection
 References
[REF-1202] Jo V an Bulck, Daniel Moghimi, Michael Schwarz, Moritz Lipp, Marina Minkin, Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom, Berk
Sunar , Daniel Gruss, and Frank Piessens. "L VI - Hijacking Transient Execution with Load V alue Injection". 2020.
.
[REF-1203] Jo V an Bulck, Daniel Moghimi, Michael Schwarz, Moritz Lipp, Marina Minkin, Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom, Berk
Sunar , Daniel Gruss, and Frank Piessens. "L VI: Hijacking Transient Execution through Microarchitectural Load V alue Injection".
2020-01-09. < https://lviattack.eu/lvi.pdf >.
[REF-1204] "Hijacking Transient Execution through Microarchitectural Load V alue Injection". 2020-05-18.
.
[REF-1205] Stephan van Schaik, Marina Minkin, Andrew Kwong, Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom. "CacheOut: Leaking Data on Intel
CPUs via Cache Evictions". 2020-12-28. < https://cacheoutattack.com/files/CacheOut.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-09-22
(CWE 4.6, 2021-10-28)Anders Nordstrom, Alric Althof f Tortuga Logic
 Modifications