3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-162: Improper Neutralization of Trailing Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/162.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-162: Improper Neutralization of T railing Special Elements
Weakness ID: 162
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes trailing special elements
that could be interpreted in unexpected ways when they are sent to a downstream component.
 Extended Description
As data is parsed, improperly handled trailing special elements may cause the process to take unexpected actions that result in an
attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
ParentOf 42 Path Equivalence: 'filename.' (T railing Dot)
ParentOf 46 Path Equivalence: 'filename ' (T railing Space)
ParentOf 49 Path Equivalence: 'filename/' (T railing Slash)
ParentOf 54 Path Equivalence: 'filedir\' (T railing Backslash)
ParentOf 163 Improper Neutralization of Multiple Trailing Special Elements
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0847 web framework for .NET allows remote attackers to bypass authentication for .aspx files in restricted
directories via a request containing a (1) "\" (backslash) or (2) "%5C" (encoded backslash)
CVE-2002-1451 Trailing space ("+" in query string) leads to source code disclosure.
CVE-2001-0446 Application server allows remote attackers to read source code for .jsp files by appending a / to the
requested URL.
 Potential Mitigations
Developers should anticipate that trailing special elements will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their
product. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is
processed by the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As anAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-162: Improper Neutralization of Trailing Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/162.html 2/2example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Trailing Special Element
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-635 Alternative Execution Due to Deceptive Filenames
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
