3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1248: Semiconductor Defects in Hardware Logic with Security-Sensitive Implications (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1248.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1248: Semiconductor Defects in Hardware Logic with Security-Sensitive
Implications
Weakness ID: 1248
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The security-sensitive hardware module contains semiconductor defects.
 Extended Description
A semiconductor device can fail for various reasons. While some are manufacturing and packaging defects, the rest are due to
prolonged use or usage under extreme conditions. Some mechanisms that lead to semiconductor defects include encapsulation
failure, die-attach failure, wire-bond failure, bulk-silicon defects, oxide-layer faults, aluminum-metal faults (including electromigration,
corrosion of aluminum, etc.), and thermal/electrical stress. These defects manifest as faults on chip-internal signals or registers, have
the ef fect of inputs, outputs, or intermediate signals being always 0 or always 1, and do not switch as expected. If such faults occur in
security-sensitive hardware modules, the security objectives of the hardware module may be compromised.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1195 Manufacturing and Life Cycle Management Concerns
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ManufacturingMay be introduced due to issues in the manufacturing environment or improper handling of components, for
example.
OperationMay be introduced by improper handling or usage outside of rated operating environments (temperature,
humidity , etc.)
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: DoS: Instability
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The network-on-chip implements a firewall for access control to peripherals from all IP cores capable of mastering transactions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1248: Semiconductor Defects in Hardware Logic with Security-Sensitive Implications (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1248.html 2/2Post-manufacture testing must be performed to ensure that hardware logic implementing security functionalities is defect-free.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
While semiconductor-manufacturing companies implement several mechanisms to continuously improve the semiconductor
manufacturing process to ensure reduction of defects, some defects can only be fixed after manufacturing. Post-manufacturing
testing of silicon die is critical. Fault models such as stuck-at-0 or stuck-at-1 must be used to develop post-manufacturing test
cases and achieve good coverage. Once the silicon packaging is done, extensive post-silicon testing must be performed to
ensure that hardware logic implementing security functionalities is defect-free.
Phase: Operation
Operating the hardware outside device specification, such as at extremely high temperatures, voltage, etc., accelerates
semiconductor degradation and results in defects. When these defects manifest as faults in security-critical, hardware modules,
it results in compromise of security guarantees. Thus, operating the device within the specification is important.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1067] Brian Bailey . "Why Chips Die". < https://semiengineering.com/why-chips-die/ >.
[REF-1068] V . Lakshminarayan. "What causes semiconductor devices to fail". < Original >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
A manufacturing defect in this logic manifests itself as a logical fault, which always sets the output of the filter to "allow" access.