3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-186: Overly Restrictive Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/186.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-186: Overly Restrictive Regular Expression
Weakness ID: 186
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A regular expression is overly restrictive, which prevents dangerous values from being detected.
 Extended Description
This weakness is not about regular expression complexity . Rather , it is about a regular expression that does not match all values that
are intended. Consider the use of a regexp to identify acceptable values or to spot unwanted terms. An overly restrictive regexp
misses some potentially security-relevant values leading to either false positives \*or\* false negatives, depending on how the regexp is
being used within the code. Consider the expression /[0-8]/ where the intention was /[0-9]/. This expression is not "complex" but the
value "9" is not matched when maybe the programmer planned to check for it.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 185 Incorrect Regular Expression
CanAlsoBe 183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs
CanAlsoBe 184 Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1604 MIE. ".php.ns" bypasses ".php$" regexp but is still parsed as PHP by Apache. (manipulates an
equivalence property under Apache)
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Regular expressions can become error prone when defining a complex language even for those experienced in writing
grammars. Determine if several smaller regular expressions simplify one large regular expression. Also, subject your regular
expression to thorough testing techniques such as equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis, and robustness. After
testing and a reasonable confidence level is achieved, a regular expression may not be foolproof. If an exploit is allowed to slip
through, then record the exploit and refactor your regular expression.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-186: Overly Restrictive Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/186.html 2/2MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Can overlap allowlist/denylist errors ( CWE-183 /CWE-184 )
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Overly Restrictive Regular Expression
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
