3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1333: Ineﬃcient Regular Expression Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1333.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1333: Inefficient Regular Expression Complexity
Weakness ID: 1333
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a regular expression with an inef ficient, possibly exponential worst-case computational complexity that consumes
excessive CPU cycles.
 Extended Description
Some regular expression engines have a feature called "backtracking". If the token cannot match, the engine "backtracks" to a
position that may result in a dif ferent token that can match.
Backtracking becomes a weakness if all of these conditions are met:
The number of possible backtracking attempts are exponential relative to the length of the input.
The input can fail to match the regular expression.
The input can be long enough.
Attackers can create crafted inputs that intentionally cause the regular expression to use excessive backtracking in a way that causes
the CPU consumption to spike.
 Alternate T erms
ReDoS: ReDoS is an abbreviation of "Regular expression Denial of Service".
Regular Expression Denial of Service: While this term is attack-focused, this is commonly used to describe the weakness.
Catastrophic backtracking: This term is used to describe the behavior of the regular expression as a negative
technical impact.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 407 Inefficient Algorithmic Complexity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1226 Complexity Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationA RegEx can be easy to create and read using unbounded matching characters, but the programmer might not
consider the risk of excessive backtracking.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)High
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1333: Ineﬃcient Regular Expression Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1333.html 2/3This example attempts to check if an input string is a "sentence" [ REF-1164 ].
The regular expression has a vulnerable backtracking clause inside (\w+\s?)\*$ which can be triggered to cause a Denial of Service by
processing particular phrases.
To fix the backtracking problem, backtracking is removed with the ?= portion of the expression which changes it to a lookahead and
the \2 which prevents the backtracking. The modified example is:
Note that [ REF-1164 ] has a more thorough (and lengthy) explanation of everything going on within the RegEx.
Example 2
This example attempts to check if an input string is a "sentence" and is modified for Perl [ REF-1164 ].
The regular expression has a vulnerable backtracking clause inside (\w+\s?)\*$ which can be triggered to cause a Denial of Service by
processing particular phrases.
To fix the backtracking problem, backtracking is removed with the ?= portion of the expression which changes it to a lookahead and
the \2 which prevents the backtracking. The modified example is:
Note that [ REF-1164 ] has a more thorough (and lengthy) explanation of everything going on within the RegEx.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-5243 server allows ReDOS with crafted User-Agent strings, due to overlapping capture groups that cause
excessive backtracking.
CVE-2021-21317 npm package for user-agent parser prone to ReDoS due to overlapping capture groups
CVE-2019-16215 Markdown parser uses inef ficient regex when processing a message, allowing users to cause CPU
consumption and delay preventing processing of other messages.
CVE-2019-6785 Long string in a version control product allows DoS due to an inef ficient regex.
CVE-2019-12041 Javascript code allows ReDoS via a long string due to excessive backtracking.
CVE-2015-8315 ReDoS when parsing time.
CVE-2015-8854 ReDoS when parsing documents.
CVE-2017-16021 ReDoS when validating URL.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use regular expressions that do not support backtracking, e.g. by removing nested quantifiers.
Effectiveness: High
Note: This is one of the few ef fective solutions when using user-provided regular expressions.
Phase: System Configuration
Set backtracking limits in the configuration of the regular expression implementation, such as PHP's pcre.backtrack\_limit. Also
consider limits on execution time for the process.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Phase: Implementation
Do not use regular expressions with untrusted input. If regular expressions must be used, avoid using backtracking in the
expression.
Effectiveness: High(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var test\_string = "Bad characters: $@#";
var bad\_pattern = /^(\w+\s?)\*$/i;
var result = test\_string.search(bad\_pattern);
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var test\_string = "Bad characters: $@#";
var good\_pattern = /^((?=(\w+))\2\s?)\*$/i;
var result = test\_string.search(good\_pattern);
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $test\_string = "Bad characters: \$\@\#";
my $bdrslt = $test\_string;
$bdrslt =~ /^(\w+\s?)\*$/i;
(good code) Example Language: Perl 
my $test\_string = "Bad characters: \$\@\#";
my $gdrslt = $test\_string;
$gdrslt =~ /^((?=(\w+))\2\s?)\*$/i;3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1333: Ineﬃcient Regular Expression Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1333.html 3/3Phase: Implementation
Limit the length of the input that the regular expression will process.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-492 Regular Expression Exponential Blowup
 References
[REF-1180] Scott A. Crosby . "Regular Expression Denial of Service". 2003-08.
.
[REF-1162] Jan Goyvaerts. "Runaway Regular Expressions: Catastrophic Backtracking". 2019-12-22. < https://www .regular-
expressions.info/catastrophic.html >.
[REF-1163] Adar W eidman. "Regular expression Denial of Service - ReDoS". < https://owasp.org/www-
community/attacks/Regular\_expression\_Denial\_of\_Service\_-\_ReDoS >.
[REF-1164] Ilya Kantor . "Catastrophic backtracking". 2020-12-13. < https://javascript.info/regexp-catastrophic-backtracking >.
[REF-1165] Cristian-Alexandru Staicu and Michael Pradel. "Freezing the W eb: A Study of ReDoS V ulnerabilities in JavaScript-
based W eb Servers". USENIX Security Symposium. 2018-07-11.
.
[REF-1166] James C. Davis, Christy A. Coghlan, Francisco Servant and Dongyoon Lee. "The Impact of Regular Expression
Denial of Service (ReDoS) in Practice: An Empirical Study at the Ecosystem Scale". 2018-08-01.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1167] James Davis. "The Regular Expression Denial of Service (ReDoS) cheat-sheet". 2020-05-23.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-01-17
(CWE 4.4, 2021-03-15)Anonymous External Contributor
 Modifications
