3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-917: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression Language Statement (…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/917.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-917: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression
Language Statement ('Expression Language Injection')
Weakness ID: 917
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs all or part of an expression language (EL) statement in a framework such as a Java Server Page (JSP) using
externally-influenced input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that
could modify the intended EL statement before it is executed.
 Extended Description
Frameworks such as Java Server Page (JSP) allow a developer to insert executable expressions within otherwise-static content.
When the developer is not aware of the executable nature of these expressions and/or does not disable them, then if an attacker can
inject expressions, this could lead to code execution or other unexpected behaviors.
 Alternate T erms
EL Injection
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 77 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection')
PeerOf 1336 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Used in a Template Engine
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-44228 Product does not neutralize ${xyz} style expressions, allowing remote code execution. (log4shell
vulnerability in log4j)
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-917: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression Language Statement (…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/917.html 2/3Avoid adding user-controlled data into an expression interpreter when possible.
Phase: Implementation
If user-controlled data must be added to an expression interpreter , one or more of the following should be performed:
Validate that the user input will not evaluate as an expression
Encode the user input in a way that ensures it is not evaluated as an expression
Phases: System Configuration; Operation
The framework or tooling might allow the developer to disable or deactivate the processing of EL expressions, such as setting
the isELIgnored attribute for a JSP page to "true".
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1027 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
In certain versions of Spring 3.0.5 and earlier , there was a vulnerability (CVE-2011-2730) in which Expression Language tags would
be evaluated twice, which ef fectively exposed any application to EL injection. However , even for later versions, this weakness is still
possible depending on configuration.
Maintenance
The interrelationships and dif ferences between CWE-917 and CWE-1336 need to be further clarified.
 References
[REF-911] Stefano Di Paola and Arshan Dabirsiaghi. "Expression Language Injection". 2011-09-12.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-912] Dan Amodio. "Remote Code with Expression Language Injection". 2012-12-14.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1279] CWE/CAPEC. "Neutralizing Your Inputs: A Log4Shell W eakness Story".
.
[REF-1280] OW ASP. "Expression Language Injection". < https://owasp.org/www-
community/vulnerabilities/Expression\_Language\_Injection >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-917: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression Language Statement (…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/917.html 3/3
 Submissions
2013-02-15
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2013-02-15 Dan Amodio, Dave Wichers Aspect Security
Suggested adding this weakness and provided references.
 Modifications