3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1330: Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1330.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1330: Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase
Weakness ID: 1330
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Confidential information stored in memory circuits is readable or recoverable after being cleared or erased.
 Extended Description
Data remanence occurs when stored, memory content is not fully lost after a memory-clear or -erase operation. Confidential memory
contents can still be readable through data remanence in the hardware.
Data remanence can occur because of performance optimization or memory organization during 'clear' or 'erase' operations, like a
design that allows the memory-organization metadata (e.g., file pointers) to be erased without erasing the actual memory content. To
protect against this weakness, memory devices will often support dif ferent commands for optimized memory erase and explicit secure
erase.
Data remanence can also happen because of the physical properties of memory circuits in use. For example, static, random-access-
memory (SRAM) and dynamic, random-access-memory (DRAM) data retention is based on the charge retained in the memory cell,
which depends on factors such as power supply , refresh rates, and temperature.
Other than explicit erase commands, self-encrypting, secure-memory devices can also support secure erase through cryptographic
erase commands. In such designs, only the decryption keys for encrypted data stored on the device are erased. That is, the stored
data are always remnant in the media after a cryptographic erase. However , only the encrypted data can be extracted. Thus,
protection against data recovery in such designs relies on the strength of the encryption algorithm.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1301 Insuf ficient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1301 Insuf ficient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Security Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory
Confidential data are readable to untrusted agent.
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1330: Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1330.html 2/3Example 1
Consider a device that uses flash memory for non-volatile-data storage. To optimize flash-access performance or reliable-flash
lifetime, the device might limit the number of flash writes/erases by maintaining some state in internal SRAM and only committing
changes to flash memory periodically .
The device also supports user reset to factory defaults with the expectation that all personal information is erased from the device
after this operation. On factory reset, user files are erased using explicit, erase commands supported by the flash device.
In the given, system design, the flash-file system can support performance-optimized erase such that only the file metadata are
erased and not the content. If this optimized erase is used for files containing user data during factory-reset flow , then device, flash
memory can contain remanent data from these files.
On device-factory reset, the implementation might not erase these copies, since the file organization has changed and the flash file
system does not have the metadata to track all previous copies.
A flash-memory region that is used by a flash-file system should be fully erased as part of the factory-reset flow . This should include
secure-erase flow for the flash media such as overwriting patterns multiple times followed by erase.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-8575 Firmware Data Deletion V ulnerability in which a base station factory reset might not delete all user
information. The impact of this enables a new owner of a used device that has been "factory-default
reset" with a vulnerable firmware version can still retrieve, at least, the previous owner's wireless
network name, and the previous owner's wireless security (such as WP A2) key . This issue was
addressed with improved, data deletion.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Support for secure-erase commands that apply multiple cycles of overwriting memory with known patterns and of
erasing actual content.
Support for cryptographic erase in self-encrypting, memory devices.
External, physical tools to erase memory such as ultraviolet-rays-based erase of Electrically erasable, programmable,
read-only memory (EEPROM).
Physical destruction of media device. This is done for repurposed or scrapped devices that are no longer in use.
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Testing of memory-device contents after clearing or erase commands.
Dynamic analysis of memory contents during device operation to detect specific, confidential assets.
Architecture and design analysis of memory clear and erase operations.
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Testing of memory-device contents after clearing or erase commands.
Dynamic analysis of memory contents during device operation to detect specific, confidential assets.
Architecture and design analysis of memory clear and erase operations.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-150 Collect Data from Common Resource Locations
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1330: Remanent Data Readable after Memory Erase (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1330.html 3/3CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
 References
[REF-1154] National Institute of Standards and Technology . "NIST Special Publication 800-88 Revision 1: Guidelines for Media
Sanitization". 2014-12. < https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST .SP.800-88r1.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-10
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Hareesh Khattri, Arun Kanuparthi, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications