3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-241: Improper Handling of Unexpected Data Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/241.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-241: Improper Handling of Unexpected Data T ype
Weakness ID: 241
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not handle or incorrectly handles when a particular element is not the expected type, e.g. it expects a digit (0-9) but
is provided with a letter (A-Z).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 228 Improper Handling of Syntactically Invalid Structure
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1156 FTP server crash via POR T command with non-numeric character .
CVE-2004-0270 Anti-virus product has assert error when line length is non-numeric.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypassAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-241: Improper Handling of Unexpected Data Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/241.html 2/2allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 993 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Input Handling
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Probably under-studied.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Wrong Data Type
CER T C Secure Coding FIO37-C CWE More
AbstractDo not assume that fgets() or fgetws() returns a nonempty
string when successful
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-48 Passing Local Filenames to Functions That Expect a URL
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
