3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1338: Improper Protections Against Hardware Overheating (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1338.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1338: Improper Protections Against Hardware Overheating
Weakness ID: 1338
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A hardware device is missing or has inadequate protection features to prevent overheating.
 Extended Description
Hardware, electrical circuits, and semiconductor silicon have thermal side ef fects, such that some of the energy consumed by the
device gets dissipated as heat and increases the temperature of the device. For example, in semiconductors, higher-operating
frequency of silicon results in higher power dissipation and heat. The leakage current in CMOS circuits increases with temperature,
and this creates positive feedback that can result in thermal runaway and damage the device permanently .
Any device lacking protections such as thermal sensors, adequate platform cooling, or thermal insulation is susceptible to attacks by
malicious software that might deliberately operate the device in modes that result in overheating. This can be used as an ef fective
denial of service (DoS) or permanent denial of service (PDoS) attack.
Depending on the type of hardware device and its expected usage, such thermal overheating can also cause safety hazards and
reliability issues. Note that battery failures can also cause device overheating but the mitigations and examples included in this
submission cannot reliably protect against a battery failure.
There can be similar weaknesses with lack of protection from attacks based on overvoltage or overcurrent conditions. However ,
thermal heat is generated by hardware operation and the device should implement protection from overheating.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation Such issues could be introduced during hardware architecture, design or implementation.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
Power Management Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1338: Improper Protections Against Hardware Overheating (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1338.html 2/2Example 1
Malicious software running on a core can execute instructions that consume maximum power or increase core frequency . Such a
power-virus program could execute on the platform for an extended time to overheat the device, resulting in permanent damage.
Execution core and platform do not support thermal sensors, performance throttling, or platform-cooling countermeasures to ensure
that any software executing on the system cannot cause overheating past the maximum allowable temperature.
The platform and SoC should have failsafe thermal limits that are enforced by thermal sensors that trigger critical temperature alerts
when high temperature is detected. Upon detection of high temperatures, the platform should trigger cooling or shutdown
automatically .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Temperature maximum and minimum limits should be enforced using thermal sensors both in silicon and at the platform level.
Phase: Implementation
The platform should support cooling solutions such as fans that can be modulated based on device-operation needs to maintain
a stable temperature.
 Detection Methods
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Dynamic tests should be performed to stress-test temperature controls.
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
Power management controls should be part of Architecture and Design reviews.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1367 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Physical Systems
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1156] Leonid Grustniy . "Loapi--This Trojan is hot!". 2017-12. < https://www .kaspersky .com/blog/loapi-trojan/20510/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-29
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
