3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-621: Variable Extraction Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/621.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-621: V ariable Extraction Error
Weakness ID: 621
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to determine the names of variables into which information is extracted, without verifying that the
names of the specified variables are valid. This could cause the program to overwrite unintended variables.
 Extended Description
For example, in PHP , extraction can be used to provide functionality similar to register\_globals, a dangerous functionality that is
frequently disabled in production systems. Calling extract() or import\_request\_variables() without the proper arguments could allow
arbitrary global variables to be overwritten, including superglobals.
Similar functionality is possible in other interpreted languages, including custom languages.
 Alternate T erms
Variable overwrite
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 914 Improper Control of Dynamically-Identified V ariables
CanPrecede 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could modify sensitive data or program variables.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code uses the credentials sent in a POST request to login a user .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
//Log user in, and set $isAdmin to true if user is an administrator
function login($user,$pass){
$query = buildQuery($user,$pass);
mysql\_query($query);
if(getUserRole($user) == "Admin"){
$isAdmin = true;
}
}
$isAdmin = false;
extract($\_POST);
login(mysql\_real\_escape\_string($user),mysql\_real\_escape\_string($pass));3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-621: Variable Extraction Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/621.html 2/2The call to extract() will overwrite the existing values of any variables defined previously , in this case $isAdmin. An attacker can send
a POST request with an unexpected third value "isAdmin" equal to "true", thus gaining Admin privileges.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-7135 extract issue enables file inclusion
CVE-2006-7079 Chain: PHP app uses extract for register\_globals compatibility layer ( CWE-621 ), enabling path
traversal ( CWE-22 )
CVE-2007-0649 extract() buried in include files makes post-disclosure analysis confusing; original report had seemed
incorrect.
CVE-2006-6661 extract() enables static code injection
CVE-2006-2828 import\_request\_variables() buried in include files makes post-disclosure analysis confusing
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Use allowlists of variable names that can be extracted.
Phase: Implementation
Consider refactoring your code to avoid extraction routines altogether .
Phase: Implementation
In PHP , call extract() with options such as EXTR\_SKIP and EXTR\_PREFIX\_ALL; call import\_request\_variables() with a prefix
argument. Note that these capabilities are not present in all PHP versions.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Probably under-reported for PHP . Seems under-studied for other interpreted languages.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
