3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1268: Policy Privileges are not Assigned Consistently Between Control and Data Agents (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1268.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1268: Policy Privileges are not Assigned Consistently Between Control and
Data Agents
Weakness ID: 1268
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's hardware-enforced access control for a particular resource improperly accounts for privilege discrepancies between
control and write policies.
 Extended Description
Integrated circuits and hardware engines may provide access to resources (device-configuration, encryption keys, etc.) belonging to
trusted firmware or software modules (commonly set by a BIOS or a bootloader). These accesses are typically controlled and limited
by the hardware. Hardware design access control is sometimes implemented using a policy . A policy defines which entity or agent
may or may not be allowed to perform an action. When a system implements multiple levels of policies, a control policy may allow
direct access to a resource as well as changes to the policies themselves.
Resources that include agents in their control policy but not in their write policy could unintentionally allow an untrusted agent to insert
itself in the write policy register . Inclusion in the write policy register could allow a malicious or misbehaving agent write access to
resources. This action could result in security compromises including leaked information, leaked encryption keys, or modification of
device configuration.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness may be introduced during the design of a device when the architect does not
comprehensively specify all of the policies required by an agent.
ImplementationThis weakness may be introduced during implementation if device policy restrictions do not suf ficiently
constrain less-privileged clients.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands;
Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Files or Directories; Reduce Reliability High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1268: Policy Privileges are not Assigned Consistently Between Control and Data Agents (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1268.html 2/3Consider a system of seven registers for storing and configuring an AES key for encryption or decryption.
Four 32-bit registers are used to store a 128-bit AES key . The names of those registers are AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0,
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2, and AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3. Collectively these are referred to as the AES Key
registers.
Register Field description
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
Three 32-bit registers are used to define access control for the AES-key registers. The names of those registers are
AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY , AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY , and AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY . Collectively these registers are
referred to as the Policy registers, and their functions are explained next.
The AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY register defines which agents can write to the AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY or
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY registers.
The AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY register defines which agents can read the AES-key registers.
The AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY register defines which agents can write the AES key registers.
The preceding three policy registers encode access control at the bit level. Therefore a maximum of 32 agents can be defined (1 bit
per agent). The value of the bit when set (i.e., "1") allows the respective action from an agent whose identity corresponds to the
number of the bit. If clear (i.e., "0"), it disallows the respective action to that corresponding agent. For example, if bit 0 is set to "1" in
the AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY register , then agent 0 has permission to read the AES-key registers.
Consider that there are 4 agents named Agent 1, Agent 2, Agent 3, and Agent 4. For access control purposes Agent 1 is assigned to
bit 1, Agent 2 to bit 2, Agent 3 to bit 3, and Agent 4 to bit 4. All agents are trusted except for Agent 3 who is untrusted. Also consider
the register values in the below table.
IThe AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY register value is 0x00000018. In binary , the lower 8 bits will be 0001 1000, meaning that:
Bits 3 and 4 are set, thus Agents 3 and 4 will have write access to AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY or AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY .
All other bits are clear , hence agents other than 3 and 4 will not have access to write to AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY or
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY .
The AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY register value is 0x00000002. In binary , the lower 8 bits will be 0000 0010, meaning that:
Bit 1 is set, thus Agent 1 will be able to read the AES key registers.
The AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY register value is 0x00000004. In binary , the lower 8 bits will be 0000 0100, meaning that:
Bit 2 is set, thus Agent 2 will be able to write the AES Key registers.
The configured access control policy for Agents 1,2,3,4 is summarized in table below .
Agent Read Write Control
Agent 1 Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed
Agent 2 Not Allowed Allowed Not Allowed
Agent 3 Not Allowed Not Allowed Allowed
Agent 4 Not Allowed Not Allowed Allowed
At this point Agents 3 and 4 can only configure which agents can read AES keys and which agents can write AES keys. Agents 3 and
4 cannot read or write AES keys - just configure access control.
Now, recall Agent 3 is untrusted. As explained above, the value of the AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY register gives agent 3 access
to write to the AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY register . Agent 3 can use this write access to add themselves to the
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY register . This is accomplished by Agent 3 writing the value 0x00000006. In binary , the lower 8 bits are
0000 0110, meaning that bit 3 will be set. Thus, giving Agent 3 having the ability to write to the AES Key registers.
If the AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY register value is 0x00000010, the lower 8 bits will be 0001 0000. This will give Agent 4, a
trusted agent, write access to AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY , but Agent 3, who is untrusted, will not have write access. The Policy
register values should therefore be as follows:(bad code) 
Register Field description
AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICYControls which agents can write to READ\_POLICY and WRITE\_POLICY registers
[31:0] Default 0x00000018
AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICYControls which agents can read the AES-key registers
[31:0] Default 0x00000002
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICYControls which agents can write to the AES-key registers
[31:0] Default 0x000000043/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1268: Policy Privileges are not Assigned Consistently Between Control and Data Agents (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1268.html 3/3
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Access-control-policy definition and programming flow must be suf ficiently tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
(good code) 
Register Field description
AES\_KEY\_CONTROL\_POLICY[31:0] Default 0x00000010
AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY [31:0] Default 0x00000002
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY [31:0] Default 0x00000004