3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-347: Improper Veriﬁcation of Cryptographic Signature (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/347.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-347: Improper V erification of Cryptographic Signature
Weakness ID: 347
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not verify , or incorrectly verifies, the cryptographic signature for data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Modify Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could gain access to sensitive data and possibly execute unauthorized code.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code, a JarFile object is created from a downloaded file.
The JAR file that was potentially downloaded from an untrusted source is created without verifying the signature (if present). An
alternate constructor that accepts a boolean verify parameter should be used instead.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1796 Does not properly verify signatures for "trusted" entities.
CVE-2005-2181 Insuf ficient verification allows spoofing.
CVE-2005-2182 Insuf ficient verification allows spoofing.
CVE-2002-1706 Accepts a configuration file without a Message Integrity Check (MIC) signature.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static AnalysisAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
File f = new File(downloadedFilePath);
JarFile jf = new JarFile(f);3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-347: Improper Veriﬁcation of Cryptographic Signature (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/347.html 2/2Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Improperly V erified Signature
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC06-J Do not rely on the default automatic signature verification provided by
URLClassLoader and java.util.jar
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.9
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-6
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req EDR 3.12
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req NDR 3.12
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req HDR 3.12
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-463 Padding Oracle Crypto Attack
CAPEC-475 Signature Spoofing by Improper V alidation
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
