3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1221: Incorrect Register Defaults or Module Parameters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1221.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1221: Incorrect Register Defaults or Module Parameters
Weakness ID: 1221
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Hardware description language code incorrectly defines register defaults or hardware Intellectual Property (IP) parameters to insecure
values.
 Extended Description
Integrated circuits and hardware IP software programmable controls and settings are commonly stored in register circuits. These
register contents have to be initialized at hardware reset to defined default values that are hard coded in the hardware description
language (HDL) code of the hardware unit. Hardware descriptive languages also support definition of parameter variables, which can
be defined in code during instantiation of the hardware IP module. Such parameters are generally used to configure a specific
instance of a hardware IP in the design.
The system security settings of a hardware design can be af fected by incorrectly defined default values or IP parameters. The
hardware IP would be in an insecure state at power reset, and this can be exposed or exploited by untrusted software running on the
system. Both register defaults and parameters are hardcoded values, which cannot be changed using software or firmware patches
but must be changed in hardware silicon. Thus, such security issues are considerably more dif ficult to address later in the lifecycle.
Hardware designs can have a large number of such parameters and register defaults settings, and it is important to have design tool
support to check these settings in an automated way and be able to identify which settings are security sensitive.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1419 Incorrect Initialization of Resource
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during implementation of hardware design, since IP parameters and defaults
are defined in HDL code and identified later during Testing or System Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
Degradation of system functionality , or loss of access control enforcement can occur .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider example design module system verilog code shown below . The register\_example module is an example parameterized
module that defines two parameters, REGISTER\_WIDTH and REGISTER\_DEF AULT. Register\_example module defines a
Secure\_mode setting, which when set makes the register content read-only and not modifiable by software writes. register\_top
module instantiates two registers, Insecure\_Device\_ID\_1 and Insecure\_Device\_ID\_2. Generally , registers containing device identifier
values are required to be read only to prevent any possibility of software modifying these values.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1221: Incorrect Register Defaults or Module Parameters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1221.html 2/4These example instantiations show how , in a hardware design, it would be possible to instantiate the register module with insecure
defaults and parameters.
In the example design, both registers will be software writable since Secure\_mode is defined as zero.(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
// Parameterized Register module example
// Secure\_mode : REGISTER\_DEFAULT[0] : When set to 1 register is read only and not writable//
module register\_example
#(
parameter REGISTER\_WIDTH = 8, // Parameter defines width of register, default 8 bits
parameter [REGISTER\_WIDTH-1:0] REGISTER\_DEFAULT = 2\*\*REGISTER\_WIDTH -2 // Default value of register computed from Width.
Sets all bits to 1s except bit 0 (Secure \_mode)
)
(
input [REGISTER\_WIDTH-1:0] Data\_in,
input Clk,
input resetn,
input write,
output reg [REGISTER\_WIDTH-1:0] Data\_out
);
reg Secure\_mode;
always @(posedge Clk or negedge resetn)
if (~resetn)
begin
Data\_out <= REGISTER\_DEFAULT; // Register content set to Default at reset
Secure\_mode <= REGISTER\_DEFAULT[0]; // Register Secure\_mode set at reset
end
else if (write & ~Secure\_mode)
begin
Data\_out <= Data\_in;
end
endmodule
module register\_top
(
input Clk,
input resetn,
input write,
input [31:0] Data\_in,
output reg [31:0] Secure\_reg,
output reg [31:0] Insecure\_reg
);
register\_example #(
.REGISTER\_WIDTH (32),
.REGISTER\_DEFAULT (1224) // Incorrect Default value used bit 0 is 0.
) Insecure\_Device\_ID\_1 (
.Data\_in (Data\_in),
.Data\_out (Secure\_reg),
.Clk (Clk),
.resetn (resetn),
.write (write)
);
register\_example #(
.REGISTER\_WIDTH (32) // Default not defined 2^32-2 value will be used as default.
) Insecure\_Device\_ID\_2 (
.Data\_in (Data\_in),
.Data\_out (Insecure\_reg),
.Clk (Clk),
.resetn (resetn),
.write (write)
);
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
register\_example #(
.REGISTER\_WIDTH (32),
.REGISTER\_DEFAULT (1225) // Correct default value set, to enable Secure\_mode
) Secure\_Device\_ID\_example (
.Data\_in (Data\_in),
.Data\_out (Secure\_reg),
.Clk (Clk),
.resetn (resetn),
.write (write)
)3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1221: Incorrect Register Defaults or Module Parameters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1221.html 3/4Example 2
The example code is taken from the fuse memory inside the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21 [ REF-1356 ]. Fuse memory
can be used to store key hashes, password hashes, and configuration information. For example, the password hashes of JT AG and
HMAC are stored in the fuse memory in the OpenPiton design.
During the firmware setup phase, data in the Fuse memory are transferred into the registers of the corresponding SoC peripherals for
initialization. However , if the of fset to access the password hash is set incorrectly , programs cannot access the correct password hash
from the fuse memory , breaking the functionalities of the peripherals and even exposing sensitive information through other
peripherals.
The following vulnerable code accesses the JT AG password hash from the fuse memory . However , the JT AG\_OFFSET is incorrect,
and the fuse memory outputs the wrong values to jtag\_hash\_o. Moreover , setting incorrect of fset gives the ability to attackers to
access JT AG by knowing other low-privileged peripherals' passwords.
To mitigate this, change JT AG\_OFFSET to the correct address of the JT AG key [ REF-1357 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
During hardware design, all the system parameters and register defaults must be reviewed to identify security sensitive settings.
Phase: Implementation
The default values of these security sensitive settings need to be defined as part of the design review phase.
Phase: T esting
Testing phase should use automated tools to test that values are configured per design specifications.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-166 Force the System to Reset V alues
 References
[REF-1356] "fuse\_mem.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/main/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/fuse\_mem/fuse\_mem.sv#L14-L15 >. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
);
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
parameter MEM\_SIZE = 100;
localparam JTAG\_OFFSET = 81;
const logic [MEM\_SIZE-1:0][31:0] mem = {
// JTAG expected hamc hash
32'h49ac13af, 32'h1276f1b8, 32'h6703193a, 32'h65eb531b,
32'h3025ccca, 32'h3e8861f4, 32'h329edfe5, 32'h98f763b4,
...
assign jtag\_hash\_o = {mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-1],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-2],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-3],
mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-4],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-5],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-6],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-7],mem[JTAG\_OFFSET-8]};
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
parameter MEM\_SIZE = 100;
localparam JTAG\_OFFSET = 100;3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1221: Incorrect Register Defaults or Module Parameters (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1221.html 4/4[REF-1357] "fix CWE 1221 in fuse\_mem.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/compare/main...cwe\_1221\_in\_fuse\_mem#dif f-
d7275edeac22f76691a31c83f005d0177359ad710ad6549ece3d069ed043ef21 >. URL validated: 2023-07-24 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-12-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications