3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-383: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Threads (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/383.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-383: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Threads
Weakness ID: 383
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Thread management in a W eb application is forbidden in some circumstances and is always highly error prone.
 Extended Description
Thread management in a web application is forbidden by the J2EE standard in some circumstances and is always highly error prone.
Managing threads is dif ficult and is likely to interfere in unpredictable ways with the behavior of the application container . Even without
interfering with the container , thread management usually leads to bugs that are hard to detect and diagnose like deadlock, race
conditions, and other synchronization errors.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 695 Use of Low-Level Functionality
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, a new Thread object is created and invoked directly from within the body of a doGet() method in a Java
servlet.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
// Perform servlet tasks.
...
// Create a new thread to handle background processing.
Runnable r = new Runnable() {
public void run() {
// Process and store request statistics.
...
}
};
new Thread(r).start();
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-383: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Threads (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/383.html 2/2For EJB, use framework approaches for parallel execution, instead of using threads.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 361 7PK - Time and State
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Bad Practices: Threads
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
