3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-420: Unprotected Alternate Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/420.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-420: Unprotected Alternate Channel
Weakness ID: 420
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product protects a primary channel, but it does not use the same level of protection for an alternate channel.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
ParentOf 421 Race Condition During Access to Alternate Channel
ParentOf 422 Unprotected Windows Messaging Channel ('Shatter')
ParentOf 1299 Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface
PeerOf 288 Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Register SECURE\_ME is located at address 0xF00. A mirror of this register called COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is at location 0x800F00.
The register SECURE\_ME is protected from malicious agents and only allows access to select, while COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is
not.
Access control is implemented using an allowlist (as indicated by acl\_oh\_allowlist). The identity of the initiator of the transaction is
indicated by the one hot input, incoming\_id. This is checked against the acl\_oh\_allowlist (which contains a list of initiators that are
allowed to access the asset).
Though this example is shown in V erilog, it will apply to VHDL as well.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(informative) Example Language: Verilog 
module foo\_bar(data\_out, data\_in, incoming\_id, address, clk, rst\_n);
output [31:0] data\_out;
input [31:0] data\_in, incoming\_id, address;
input clk, rst\_n;
wire write\_auth, addr\_auth;
reg [31:0] data\_out, acl\_oh\_allowlist, q;
assign write\_auth = | (incoming\_id & acl\_oh\_allowlist) ? 1 : 0;
always @\*
lhlllit<32'h83123/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-420: Unprotected Alternate Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/420.html 2/3The bugged line of code is repeated in the Bad example above. The weakness arises from the fact that the SECURE\_ME register can
be modified by writing to the shadow register COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME. The address of COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME should also be
included in the check. That buggy line of code should instead be replaced as shown in the Good Code Snippet below .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-8004 When the internal flash is protected by blocking access on the Data Bus (DBUS), it can still be
indirectly accessed through the Instruction Bus (IBUS).
CVE-2002-0567 DB server assumes that local clients have performed authentication, allowing attacker to directly
connect to a process to load libraries and execute commands; a socket interface also exists (another
alternate channel), so attack can be remote.
CVE-2002-1578 Product does not restrict access to underlying database, so attacker can bypass restrictions by directly
querying the database.
CVE-2003-1035 User can avoid lockouts by using an API instead of the GUI to conduct brute force password guessing.
CVE-2002-1863 FTP service can not be disabled even when other access controls would require it.
CVE-2002-0066 Windows named pipe created without authentication/access control, allowing configuration
modification.
CVE-2004-1461 Router management interface spawns a separate TCP connection after authentication, allowing
hijacking by attacker coming from the same IP address.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify all alternate channels and use the same protection mechanisms that are used for the primary channels.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 956 SFP Secondary Cluster: Channel Attack
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can be primary to authentication errors, and resultant from unhandled error conditions.
acl\_oh\_allowlist <= 32'h8312;
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n)
if (!rst\_n)
begin
q <= 32'h0;
data\_out <= 32'h0;
end
else
begin
q <= (addr\_auth & write\_auth) ? data\_in: q;
data\_out <= q;
end
end
endmodule
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00 || address == 32'h800F00) ? 1: 0;3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-420: Unprotected Alternate Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/420.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications