3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-806: Buﬀer Access Using Size of Source Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/806.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-806: Buffer Access Using Size of Source Buffer
Weakness ID: 806
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the size of a source buf fer when reading from or writing to a destination buf fer, which may cause it to access
memory that is outside of the bounds of the buf fer.
 Extended Description
When the size of the destination is smaller than the size of the source, a buf fer overflow could occur .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 805 Buffer Access with Incorrect Length V alue
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
Buffer overflows generally lead to crashes. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are possible,
including putting the program into an infinite loop.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of
a program's implicit security policy .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other
security service.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, the source character string is copied to the dest character string using the method strncpy .
However , in the call to strncpy the source character string is used within the sizeof call to determine the number of characters to copy .
This will create a buf fer overflow as the size of the source character string is greater than the dest character string. The dest character
string should be used within the sizeof call to ensure that the correct number of characters are copied, as shown below .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
char source[21] = "the character string";
char dest[12];
strncpy(dest, source, sizeof(source)-1);
...
(good code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-806: Buﬀer Access Using Size of Source Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/806.html 2/4Example 2
In this example, the method outputFilenameT oLog outputs a filename to a log file. The method arguments include a pointer to a
character string containing the file name and an integer for the number of characters in the string. The filename is copied to a buf fer
where the buf fer size is set to a maximum size for inputs to the log file. The method then calls another method to save the contents of
the buf fer to the log file.
However , in this case the string copy method, strncpy , mistakenly uses the length method argument to determine the number of
characters to copy rather than using the size of the local character string, buf. This can lead to a buf fer overflow if the number of
characters contained in character string pointed to by filename is larger then the number of characters allowed for the local character
string. The string copy method should use the buf character string within a sizeof call to ensure that only characters up to the size of
the buf array are copied to avoid a buf fer overflow , as shown below .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Examples include the Safe C String Library (SafeStr) by V iega, and the
Strsafe.h library from Microsoft. This is not a complete solution, since many buf fer overflows are not related to strings.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Programmers should adhere to the following rules when allocating and managing their applications memory: Double check that
your buf fer is as large as you specify . When using functions that accept a number of bytes to copy , such as strncpy(), be aware
that if the destination buf fer size is equal to the source buf fer size, it may not NULL-terminate the string. Check buf fer boundaries
if calling this function in a loop and make sure there is no danger of writing past the allocated space. Truncate all input strings to
a reasonable length before passing them to the copy and concatenation functions
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to...
char source[21] = "the character string";
char dest[12];
strncpy(dest, source, sizeof(dest)-1);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define LOG\_INPUT\_SIZE 40
// saves the file name to a log file
int outputFilenameToLog(char \*filename, int length) {
int success;
// buffer with size set to maximum size for input to log file
char buf[LOG\_INPUT\_SIZE];
// copy filename to buffer
strncpy(buf, filename, length);
// save to log file
success = saveToLogFile(buf);
return success;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
// copy filename to buffer
strncpy(buf, filename, sizeof(buf)-1);
...3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-806: Buﬀer Access Using Size of Source Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/806.html 3/4exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phases: Build and Compilation; Operation
Most mitigating technologies at the compiler or OS level to date address only a subset of buf fer overflow problems and rarely
provide complete protection against even that subset. It is good practice to implement strategies to increase the workload of an
attacker , such as leaving the attacker to guess an unknown value that changes every program execution.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-56] Microsoft. "Using the Strsafe.h Functions". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/menurc/strsafe-ovw?
redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-57] Matt Messier and John V iega. "Safe C String Library v1.0.3". < http://www .gnu-darwin.org/www001/ports-1.5a-
CURRENT/devel/safestr/work/safestr-1.0.3/doc/safestr .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-59] Arjan van de V en. "Limiting buf fer overflows with ExecShield". < https://archive.is/saAFo >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-806: Buﬀer Access Using Size of Source Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/806.html 4/4[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-01-15
(CWE 1.8, 2010-02-16)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications