3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-260: Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/260.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-260: Password in Configuration File
Weakness ID: 260
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores a password in a configuration file that might be accessible to actors who do not know the password.
 Extended Description
This can result in compromise of the system for which the password is used. An attacker could gain access to this file and learn the
stored password or worse yet, change the password to one of their choosing.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 522 Insuf ficiently Protected Credentials
ParentOf 13 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Password in Configuration File
ParentOf 258 Empty Password in Configuration File
ParentOf 555 J2EE Misconfiguration: Plaintext Password in Configuration File
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Below is a snippet from a Java properties file.
Because the LDAP credentials are stored in plaintext, anyone with access to the file can gain access to the resource.
Example 2
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
webapp.ldap.username = secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password = secretPassword
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-260: Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/260.html 2/3The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-38665 A continuous delivery pipeline management tool stores an unencypted password in a configuration file.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Avoid storing passwords in easily accessible locations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider storing cryptographic hashes of passwords as an alternative to storing in plaintext.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Password Management: Password in Configuration File
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-260: Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/260.html 3/3
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications