3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-348: Use of Less Trusted Source (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/348.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-348: Use of Less T rusted Source
Weakness ID: 348
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has two dif ferent sources of the same data or information, but it uses the source that has less support for verification, is
less trusted, or is less resistant to attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could utilize the untrusted data source to bypass protection mechanisms and gain
access to sensitive data.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code attempts to limit the access of a page to certain IP Addresses. It checks the 'HTTP\_X\_FOR WARDED\_FOR' header in case
an authorized user is sending the request through a proxy .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$requestingIP = '0.0.0.0';
if (array\_key\_exists('HTTP\_X\_FORWARDED\_FOR', $\_SERVER)) {
$requestingIP = $\_SERVER['HTTP\_X\_FORWARDED\_FOR'];
else{
$requestingIP = $\_SERVER['REMOTE\_ADDR'];
}
if(in\_array($requestingIP,$ipAllowlist)){
generatePage();
return;
}
else{
echo "You are not authorized to view this page";
return;
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-348: Use of Less Trusted Source (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/348.html 2/2The 'HTTP\_X\_FOR WARDED\_FOR' header can be user controlled and so should never be trusted. An attacker can falsify the header
to gain access to the page.
This fixed code only trusts the 'REMOTE\_ADDR' header and so avoids the issue:
Be aware that 'REMOTE\_ADDR' can still be spoofed. This may seem useless because the server will send the response to the fake
address and not the attacker , but this may still be enough to conduct an attack. For example, if the generatePage() function in this
code is resource intensive, an attacker could flood the server with fake requests using an authorized IP and consume significant
resources. This could be a serious DoS attack even though the attacker would never see the page's sensitive content.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0860 Product uses IP address provided by a client, instead of obtaining it from the packet headers, allowing
easier spoofing.
CVE-2004-1950 Web product uses the IP address in the X-Forwarded-For HTTP header instead of a server variable
that uses the connecting IP address, allowing filter bypass.
CVE-2001-0908 Product logs IP address specified by the client instead of obtaining it from the packet headers, allowing
information hiding.
CVE-2006-1126 PHP application uses IP address from X-Forwarded-For HTTP header , instead of REMOTE\_ADDR.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Use of Less Trusted Source
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-141 Cache Poisoning
CAPEC-142 DNS Cache Poisoning
CAPEC-73 User-Controlled Filename
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
CAPEC-85 AJAX Footprinting
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
(good code) Example Language: PHP 
$requestingIP = '0.0.0.0';
if (array\_key\_exists('HTTP\_X\_FORWARDED\_FOR', $\_SERVER)) {
echo "This application cannot be accessed through a proxy.";
return;
else{
$requestingIP = $\_SERVER['REMOTE\_ADDR'];
}
...