3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1234: Hardware Internal or Debug Modes Allow Override of Locks (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1234.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1234: Hardware Internal or Debug Modes Allow Override of Locks
Weakness ID: 1234
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
System configuration protection may be bypassed during debug mode.
 Extended Description
Device configuration controls are commonly programmed after a device power reset by a trusted firmware or software module (e.g.,
BIOS/bootloader) and then locked from any further modification. This is commonly implemented using a trusted lock bit, which when
set, disables writes to a protected set of registers or address regions. The lock protection is intended to prevent modification of certain
system configuration (e.g., memory/memory protection unit configuration). If debug features supported by hardware or internal
modes/system states are supported in the hardware design, modification of the lock protection may be allowed allowing access and
modification of configuration information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
Bypass of lock bit allows access and modification of system configuration even when the lock bit is
set.High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
For example, consider the example Locked\_override\_register example. This register module supports a lock mode that blocks any
writes after lock is set to 1.
However , it also allows override of the lock protection when scan\_mode or debug\_unlocked modes are active.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1234: Hardware Internal or Debug Modes Allow Override of Locks (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1234.html 2/3If either the scan\_mode or the debug\_unlocked modes can be triggered by software, then the lock protection may be bypassed.
Example 2
The following example code [ REF-1375 ] is taken from the register lock security peripheral of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton
SoC. It demonstrates how to lock read or write access to security-critical hardware registers (e.g., crypto keys, system integrity code,
etc.). The configuration to lock all the sensitive registers in the SoC is managed through the reglk\_mem registers. These reglk\_mem
registers are reset when the hardware powers up and configured during boot up. Malicious users, even with kernel-level software
privilege, do not get access to the sensitive contents that are locked down. Hence, the security of the entire system can potentially be
compromised if the register lock configurations are corrupted or if the register locks are disabled.
The example code [ REF-1375 ] illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of register locks in the SoC. In this flawed
implementation [ REF-1375 ], the reglk\_mem registers are also being reset when the system enters debug mode (indicated by the
jtag\_unlock signal). Consequently , users can simply put the processor in debug mode to access sensitive contents that are supposed
to be protected by the register lock feature.
This can be mitigated by excluding debug mode signals from the reset logic of security-critical register locks as demonstrated in the
following code snippet [ REF-1376 ].module Locked\_register\_example
(
input [15:0] Data\_in,
input Clk,
input resetn,
input write,
input Lock,
input scan\_mode,
input debug\_unlocked,
output reg [15:0] Data\_out
);
reg lock\_status;
always @(posedge Clk or negedge resetn)
if (~resetn) // Register is reset resetn
begin
lock\_status <= 1'b0;
end
else if (Lock)
begin
lock\_status <= 1'b1;
end
else if (~Lock)
begin
lock\_status <= lock\_status
end
always @(posedge Clk or negedge resetn)
if (~resetn) // Register is reset resetn
begin
Data\_out <= 16'h0000;
end
else if (write & (~lock\_status | scan\_mode | debug\_unlocked) ) // Register protected by Lock bit input, overrides supported for
scan\_mode & debug\_unlocked
begin
Data\_out <= Data\_in;
end
else if (~write)
begin
Data\_out <= Data\_out;
end
endmodule
(good code) 
Either remove the debug and scan mode overrides or protect enabling of these modes so that only trusted and authorized users may
enable these modes.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~jtag\_unlock && ~rst\_9))
begin
for (j=0; j < 6; j=j+1) begin
reglk\_mem[j] <= 'h0;
end
end
...3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1234: Hardware Internal or Debug Modes Allow Override of Locks (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1234.html 3/3
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; T esting
Security Lock bit protections should be reviewed for any bypass/override modes supported.
Any supported override modes either should be removed or protected using authenticated debug modes.
Security lock programming flow and lock properties should be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-176 Configuration/Environment Manipulation
 References
[REF-1375] "reglk\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/cde1d9d6888bf fab21d4b405ccef61b19c58dd3c/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/reglk/reglk\_wrapper .sv
#L80C1-L80C48 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
[REF-1376] "Fix for reglk\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/20238068b385d7ab704cabfb95f f95dd6e56e1c2/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/reglk/reglk\_wrapper .sv
#L80 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-01-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-07 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-07 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~rst\_9))
begin
for (j=0; j < 6; j=j+1) begin
reglk\_mem[j] <= 'h0;
end
end
...