3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-603: Use of Client-Side Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/603.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-603: Use of Client-Side Authentication
Weakness ID: 603
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A client/server product performs authentication within client code but not in server code, allowing server-side authentication to be
bypassed via a modified client that omits the authentication check.
 Extended Description
Client-side authentication is extremely weak and may be breached easily . Any attacker may read the source code and reverse-
engineer the authentication mechanism to access parts of the application which would otherwise be protected.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 602 Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
PeerOf 300 Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint
PeerOf 656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used client-side authentication in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-33139 SCADA system only uses client-side authentication, allowing adversaries to impersonate other users.
CVE-2006-0230 Client-side check for a password allows access to a server using crafted XML requests from a modified
client.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-603: Use of Client-Side Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/603.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not rely on client side data. Always perform server side authentication.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 947 SFP Secondary Cluster: Authentication Bypass
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Untrustworthy
Credentials", Page 37. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
