3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/456.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a V ariable
Weakness ID: 456
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not initialize critical variables, which causes the execution environment to use unexpected values.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 909 Missing Initialization of Resource
CanPrecede 89 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection')
CanPrecede 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
CanPrecede 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
CanPrecede 457 Use of Uninitialized V ariable
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Quality Degradation; Varies by Context
The uninitialized data may be invalid, causing logic errors within the program. In some cases, this could
result in a security problem.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This function attempts to extract a pair of numbers from a user-supplied string.
This code attempts to extract two integer values out of a formatted, user-supplied input. However , if an attacker were to provide an
input of the form:
then only the m variable will be initialized. Subsequent use of n may result in the use of an uninitialized variable ( CWE-457 ).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void parse\_data(char \*untrusted\_input){
int m, n, error;
error = sscanf(untrusted\_input, "%d:%d", &m, &n);
if ( EOF == error ){
die("Did not specify integer value. Die evil hacker!\n");
}
/\* proceed assuming n and m are initialized correctly \*/
}
(attack code) 
123:3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/456.html 2/5Example 2
Here, an uninitialized field in a Java class is used in a seldom-called method, which would cause a NullPointerException to be thrown.
Example 3
This code first authenticates a user , then allows a delete command if the user is an administrator .
The $isAdmin variable is set to true if the user is an admin, but is uninitialized otherwise. If PHP's register\_globals feature is enabled,
an attacker can set uninitialized variables like $isAdmin to arbitrary values, in this case gaining administrator privileges by setting
$isAdmin to true.
Example 4
In the following Java code the BankManager class uses the user variable of the class User to allow authorized users to perform bank
manager tasks. The user variable is initialized within the method setUser that retrieves the User from the User database. The user is
then authenticated as unauthorized user through the method authenticateUser .
However , if the method setUser is not called before authenticateUser then the user variable will not have been initialized and will
result in a NullPointerException. The code should verify that the user variable has been initialized before it is used, as in the following
code.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private User user;
public void someMethod() {
// Do something interesting.
...
// Throws NPE if user hasn't been properly initialized.
String username = user.getName();
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
if (authenticate($username,$password) && setAdmin($username)){
$isAdmin = true;
}
/.../
if ($isAdmin){
deleteUser($userToDelete);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class BankManager {
// user allowed to perform bank manager tasks
private User user = null;
private boolean isUserAuthentic = false;
// constructor for BankManager class
public BankManager() {
...
}
// retrieve user from database of users
public User getUserFromUserDatabase(String username){
...
}
// set user variable using username
public void setUser(String username) {
this.user = getUserFromUserDatabase(username);
}
// authenticate user
public boolean authenticateUser(String username, String password) {
if (username.equals(user.getUsername()) && password.equals(user.getPassword())) {
isUserAuthentic = true;
}
return isUserAuthentic;
}
// methods for performing bank manager tasks
...
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/456.html 3/5Example 5
This example will leave test\_string in an unknown condition when i is the same value as err\_val, because test\_string is not initialized
(CWE-456 ). Depending on where this code segment appears (e.g. within a function body), test\_string might be random if it is stored
on the heap or stack. If the variable is declared in static memory , it might be zero or NULL. Compiler optimization might contribute to
the unpredictability of this address.
When the printf() is reached, test\_string might be an unexpected address, so the printf might print junk strings ( CWE-457 ).
To fix this code, there are a couple approaches to making sure that test\_string has been properly set once it reaches the printf().
One solution would be to set test\_string to an acceptable default before the conditional:
Another solution is to ensure that each branch of the conditional - including the default/else branch - could ensure that test\_string is
set:
 Observed Examples
Reference Descriptionpublic class BankManager {
// user allowed to perform bank manager tasks
private User user = null;
private boolean isUserAuthentic = false;
// constructor for BankManager class
public BankManager(String username) {
user = getUserFromUserDatabase(username);
}
// retrieve user from database of users
public User getUserFromUserDatabase(String username) {...}
// authenticate user
public boolean authenticateUser(String username, String password) {
if (user == null) {
System.out.println("Cannot find user " + username);
}
else {
if (password.equals(user.getPassword())) {
isUserAuthentic = true;
}
}
return isUserAuthentic;
}
// methods for performing bank manager tasks
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);
(good code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string = "Done at the beginning";
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);
(good code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
else {
test\_string = "Done on the other side!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/456.html 4/5CVE-2020-6078 Chain: The return value of a function returning a pointer is not checked for success ( CWE-252 )
resulting in the later use of an uninitialized variable ( CWE-456 ) and a null pointer dereference ( CWE-
476)
CVE-2009-2692 Chain: Use of an unimplemented network socket operation pointing to an uninitialized handler function
(CWE-456 ) causes a crash because of a null pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
CVE-2020-20739 A variable that has its value set in a conditional statement is sometimes used when the conditional
fails, sometimes causing data leakage
CVE-2005-2978 Product uses uninitialized variables for size and index, leading to resultant buf fer overflow .
CVE-2005-2109 Internal variable in PHP application is not initialized, allowing external modification.
CVE-2005-2193 Array variable not initialized in PHP application, leading to resultant SQL injection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Check that critical variables are initialized.
Phase: T esting
Use a static analysis tool to spot non-initialized variables.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1167 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 12. Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 1180 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 02. Declarations and Initialization (DCL)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness is a major factor in a number of resultant weaknesses, especially in web applications that allow global variable
initialization (such as PHP) with libraries that can be directly requested.
Research Gap
It is highly likely that a large number of resultant weaknesses have missing initialization as a primary factor , but researcher reports
generally do not provide this level of detail.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Missing Initialization
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
CER T C Secure Coding ERR30-C CWE More
AbstractSet errno to zero before calling a library function known to set
errno, and check errno only after the function returns a value
indicating failure
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-456: Missing Initialization of a Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/456.html 5/5SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardDCL04-PL Exact Always initialize local variables
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardDCL33-PL Imprecise Declare identifiers before using them
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-456
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-456
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "V ariable
Initialization", Page 312. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-456.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-456. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names