3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-291: Reliance on IP Address for Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/291.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-291: Reliance on IP Address for Authentication
Weakness ID: 291
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an IP address for authentication.
 Extended Description
IP addresses can be easily spoofed. Attackers can forge the source IP address of the packets they send, but response packets will
return to the forged IP address. To see the response packets, the attacker has to snif f the traf fic between the victim machine and the
forged IP address. In order to accomplish the required snif fing, attackers typically attempt to locate themselves on the same subnet as
the victim machine. Attackers may be able to circumvent this requirement by using source routing, but source routing is disabled
across much of the Internet today . In summary , IP address verification can be a useful part of an authentication scheme, but it should
not be the single factor required for authentication.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
ChildOf 290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Malicious users can fake authentication information, impersonating any IP address.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Both of these examples check if a request is from a trusted address before responding to the request.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
sd = socket(AF\_INET, SOCK\_DGRAM, 0);
serv.sin\_family = AF\_INET;
serv.sin\_addr.s\_addr = htonl(INADDR\_ANY);
servr.sin\_port = htons(1008);
bind(sd, (struct sockaddr \*) & serv, sizeof(serv));
while (1) {
memset(msg, 0x0, MAX\_MSG);
clilen = sizeof(cli);
if (inet\_ntoa(cli.sin\_addr)==getTrustedAddress()) {
n = recvfrom(sd, msg, MAX\_MSG, 0, (struct sockaddr \*) & cli, &clilen);
}
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-291: Reliance on IP Address for Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/291.html 2/3The code only verifies the address as stored in the request packet. An attacker can spoof this address, thus impersonating a trusted
client.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30319 S-bus functionality in a home automation product performs access control using an IP allowlist, which
can be bypassed by a forged IP address.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use other means of identity verification that cannot be simply spoofed. Possibilities include a username/password or certificate.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Trusting self-reported IP address
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-4 Using Alternative IP Address Encodings
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1371] "IP address spoofing". Wikipedia. 2006-04-07. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP\_address\_spoofing >. URL validated:
2023-10-21 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
while(true) {
DatagramPacket rp=new DatagramPacket(rData,rData.length);
outSock.receive(rp);
String in = new String(p.getData(),0, rp.getLength());
InetAddress clientIPAddress = rp.getAddress();
int port = rp.getPort();
if (isTrustedAddress(clientIPAddress) & secretKey.equals(in)) {
out = secret.getBytes();
DatagramPacket sp =new DatagramPacket(out,out.length, IPAddress, port); outSock.send(sp);
}
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-291: Reliance on IP Address for Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/291.html 3/3
 Submissions
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names