3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-649: Reliance on Obfuscation or Encryption of Security-Relevant Inputs without Integrity Check…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/649.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-649: Reliance on Obfuscation or Encryption of Security-Relevant Inputs
without Integrity Checking
Weakness ID: 649
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses obfuscation or encryption of inputs that should not be mutable by an external actor , but the product does not use
integrity checks to detect if those inputs have been modified.
 Extended Description
When an application relies on obfuscation or incorrectly applied / weak encryption to protect client-controllable tokens or parameters,
that may have an ef fect on the user state, system state, or some decision made on the server . Without protecting the
tokens/parameters for integrity , the application is vulnerable to an attack where an adversary traverses the space of possible values of
the said token/parameter in order to attempt to gain an advantage. The goal of the attacker is to find another admissible value that will
somehow elevate their privileges in the system, disclose information or change the behavior of the system in some way beneficial to
the attacker . If the application does not protect these critical tokens/parameters for integrity , it will not be able to determine that these
values have been tampered with. Measures that are used to protect data for confidentiality should not be relied upon to provide the
integrity service.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
The inputs could be modified without detection, causing the product to have unexpected system state or
make incorrect security decisions.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-0039 An IPSec configuration does not perform integrity checking of the IPSec packet as the result of either
not configuring ESP properly to support the integrity service or using AH improperly . In either case, the
security gateway receiving the IPSec packet would not validate the integrity of the packet to ensure
that it was not changed. Thus if the packets were intercepted the attacker could undetectably change
some of the bits in the packets. The meaningful bit flipping was possible due to the known weaknessesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-649: Reliance on Obfuscation or Encryption of Security-Relevant Inputs without Integrity Check…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/649.html 2/2in the CBC encryption mode. Since the attacker knew the structure of the packet, they were able (in
one variation of the attack) to use bit flipping to change the destination IP of the packet to the
destination machine controlled by the attacker . And so the destination security gateway would decrypt
the packet and then forward the plaintext to the machine controlled by the attacker . The attacker could
then read the original message. For instance if VPN was used with the vulnerable IPSec configuration
the attacker could read the victim's e-mail. This vulnerability demonstrates the need to enforce the
integrity service properly when critical data could be modified by an attacker . This problem might have
also been mitigated by using an encryption mode that is not susceptible to bit flipping attacks, but the
preferred mechanism to address this problem still remains message verification for integrity . While this
attack focuses on the network layer and requires an entity that controls part of the communication path
such as a router , the situation is not much dif ferent at the software level, where an attacker can modify
tokens/parameters used by the application.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Protect important client controllable tokens/parameters for integrity using PKI methods (i.e. digital signatures) or other means,
and checks for integrity on the server side.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Repeated requests from a particular user that include invalid values of tokens/parameters (those that should not be changed
manually by users) should result in the user account lockout.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Client side tokens/parameters should not be such that it would be easy/predictable to guess another valid state.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Obfuscation should not be relied upon. If encryption is used, it needs to be properly applied (i.e. proven algorithm and
implementation, use padding, use random initialization vector , user proper encryption mode). Even with proper encryption where
the ciphertext does not leak information about the plaintext or reveal its structure, compromising integrity is possible (although
less likely) without the provision of the integrity service.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-463 Padding Oracle Crypto Attack
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
