3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-109: Struts: Validator Turned Oﬀ (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/109.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-109: Struts: V alidator T urned Off
Weakness ID: 109
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Automatic filtering via a Struts bean has been turned of f, which disables the Struts V alidator and custom validation logic. This exposes
the application to other weaknesses related to insuf ficient input validation.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1173 Improper Use of V alidation Framework
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This mapping defines an action for a download form:
This mapping has disabled validation. Disabling validation exposes this action to numerous types of attacks.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that an action form mapping enables validation. Set the validate field to true.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 

3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-109: Struts: Validator Turned Oﬀ (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/109.html 2/2MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
The Action Form mapping in the demonstrative example disables the form's validate() method. The Struts bean: write tag
automatically encodes special HTML characters, replacing a < with "<" and a > with ">". This action can be disabled by
specifying filter="false" as an attribute of the tag to disable specified JSP pages. However , being disabled makes these pages
susceptible to cross-site scripting attacks. An attacker may be able to insert malicious scripts as user input to write to these JSP
pages.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: V alidator Turned Of f
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
