3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1100: Insuﬃcient Isolation of System-Dependent Functions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1100.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1100: Insufficient Isolation of System-Dependent Functions
Weakness ID: 1100
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product or code does not isolate system-dependent functionality into separate standalone modules.
 Extended Description
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain and/or port the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or
time-consuming to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1061 Insuf ficient Encapsulation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1227 Encapsulation Issues
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-963] Robert A. Martin and Lawrence H. Shafer . "Providing a Framework for Ef fective Software Quality Assessment". 1996-
07.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content HistoryAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1100: Insuﬃcient Isolation of System-Dependent Functions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1100.html 2/2
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications