3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-360: Trust of System Event Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/360.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-360: T rust of System Event Data
Weakness ID: 360
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Security based on event locations are insecure and can be spoofed.
 Extended Description
Events are a messaging system which may provide control data to programs listening for events. Events often do not have any type
of authentication framework to allow them to be verified from a trusted source. Any application, in Windows, on a given desktop can
send a message to any window on the same desktop. There is no authentication framework for these messages. Therefore, any
message can be used to manipulate any process on the desktop if the process does not check the validity and safeness of those
messages.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
ParentOf 422 Unprotected Windows Messaging Channel ('Shatter')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If one trusts the system-event information and executes commands based on it, one could
potentially take actions based on a spoofed identity .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example code prints out secret information when an authorized user activates a button:
This code does not attempt to prevent unauthorized users from activating the button. Even if the button is rendered non-functional to
unauthorized users in the application UI, an attacker can easily send a false button press event to the application window and exposeAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void actionPerformed(ActionEvent e) {
if (e.getSource() == button) {
System.out.println("print out secret information");
}
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-360: Trust of System Event Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/360.html 2/2the secret information.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0213 Attacker uses Shatter attack to bypass GUI-enforced protection for CVE-2003-0908.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Never trust or rely any of the information in an Event for security .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 949 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Endpoint Authentication
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Trust of system event data
Software Fault Patterns SFP29 Faulty endpoint authentication
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
