3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State t…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1423.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural
Predictor State that Influences T ransient Execution
Weakness ID: 1423
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Shared microarchitectural predictor state may allow code to influence transient execution across a hardware boundary , potentially
exposing data that is accessible beyond the boundary over a covert channel.
 Extended Description
Many commodity processors have Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) features that protect software components from one another .
These features can include memory segmentation, virtual memory , privilege rings, trusted execution environments, and virtual
machines, among others. For example, virtual memory provides each process with its own address space, which prevents processes
from accessing each other's private data. Many of these features can be used to form hardware-enforced security boundaries
between software components.
When separate software components (for example, two processes) share microarchitectural predictor state across a hardware
boundary , code in one component may be able to influence microarchitectural predictor behavior in another component. If the
predictor can cause transient execution, the shared predictor state may allow an attacker to influence transient execution in a victim,
and in a manner that could allow the attacker to infer private data from the victim by monitoring observable discrepancies ( CWE-203 )
in a covert channel [ REF-1400 ].
Predictor state may be shared when the processor transitions from one component to another (for example, when a process makes a
system call to enter the kernel). Many commodity processors have features which prevent microarchitectural predictions that occur
before a boundary from influencing predictions that occur after the boundary .
Predictor state may also be shared between hardware threads, for example, sibling hardware threads on a processor that supports
simultaneous multithreading (SMT). This sharing may be benign if the hardware threads are simultaneously executing in the same
software component, or it could expose a weakness if one sibling is a malicious software component, and the other sibling is a victim
software component. Processors that share microarchitectural predictors between hardware threads may have features which prevent
microarchitectural predictions that occur on one hardware thread from influencing predictions that occur on another hardware thread.
Features that restrict predictor state sharing across transitions or between hardware threads may be always-on, on by default, or may
require opt-in from software.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can be introduced during hardware architecture and design if predictor state is not
properly isolated between modes (for example, user mode and kernel mode), if predictor state is not
isolated between hardware threads, or if it is not isolated between other kinds of execution contexts
supported by the processor .
ImplementationThis weakness can be introduced during system software implementation if predictor-state-sanitizing
operations (for example, the indirect branch prediction barrier on Intel x86) are not invoked when
switching from one context to another .
System ConfigurationThis weakness can be introduced if the system has not been configured according to the hardware
vendor's recommendations for mitigating the weakness.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State t…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1423.html 2/5Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Branch Target Injection (BTI) is a vulnerability that can allow an SMT hardware thread to maliciously train the indirect branch predictor
state that is shared with its sibling hardware thread. A cross-thread BTI attack requires the attacker to find a vulnerable code
sequence within the victim software. For example, the authors of [ REF-1415 ] identified the following code sequence in the Windows
library ntdll.dll:
To successfully exploit this code sequence to disclose the victim's private data, the attacker must also be able to find an indirect
branch site within the victim, where the attacker controls the values in edi and ebx, and the attacker knows the value in edx as shown
above at the indirect branch site.
A proof-of-concept cross-thread BTI attack might proceed as follows:
1. The attacker thread and victim thread must be co-scheduled on the same physical processor core.
2. The attacker thread must train the shared branch predictor so that when the victim thread reaches indirect\_branch\_site, the
jmp instruction will be predicted to target example\_code\_sequence instead of the correct architectural target. The training
procedure may vary by processor , and the attacker may need to reverse-engineer the branch predictor to identify a suitable
training algorithm.
3. This step assumes that the attacker can control some values in the victim program, specifically the values in edi and ebx at
indirect\_branch\_site. When the victim reaches indirect\_branch\_site the processor will (mis)predict example\_code\_sequence
as the target and (transiently) execute the adc instructions. If the attacker chooses ebx so that `ebx = m
0x13BE13BD - edx, then the first adc will load 32 bits from address m in the victim's address space and add \*m (the
data loaded from) to the attacker-controlled base address in edi. The second adc instruction accesses a location in
memory whose address corresponds to \*m`.
4. The adversary uses a covert channel analysis technique such as Flush+Reload ([ REF-1416 ]) to infer the value of the victim's
private data \*m.
Example 2
BTI can also allow software in one execution context to maliciously train branch predictor entries that can be used in another context.
For example, on some processors user-mode software may be able to train predictor entries that can also be used after transitioning
into kernel mode, such as after invoking a system call. This vulnerability does not necessarily require SMT and may instead be
performed in synchronous steps, though it does require the attacker to find an exploitable code sequence in the victim's code, for
example, in the kernel.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-5754 (Branch Target Injection, BTI, Spectre v2). Shared microarchitectural indirect branch predictor state
may allow code to influence transient execution across a process, VM, or privilege boundary ,
potentially exposing data that is accessible beyond the boundary .
CVE-2022-0001 (Branch History Injection, BHI, Spectre-BHB). Shared branch history state may allow user-mode code
to influence transient execution in the kernel, potentially exposing kernel data over a covert channel.
CVE-2021-33149 (RSB underflow , Retbleed). Shared return stack buf fer state may allow code that executes before a
prediction barrier to influence transient execution after the prediction barrier , potentially exposing data
that is accessible beyond the barrier over a covert channel.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
(bad code) Example Language: x86 Assembly 
adc edi,dword ptr [ebx+edx+13BE13BDh]
adc dl,byte ptr [edi]
...
indirect\_branch\_site:
jmp dword ptr [rsi] # at this point attacker knows edx, controls edi and ebx3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State t…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1423.html 3/5The hardware designer can attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies in specific covert
channels.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Hardware designers may choose to use microarchitectural bits to tag predictor entries. For example, each predictor entry may
be tagged with a kernel-mode bit which, when set, indicates that the predictor entry was created in kernel mode. The processor
can use this bit to enforce that predictions in the current mode must have been trained in the current mode. This can prevent
malicious cross-mode training, such as when user-mode software attempts to create predictor entries that influence transient
execution in the kernel. Predictor entry tags can also be used to associate each predictor entry with the SMT thread that created
it, and thus the processor can enforce that each predictor entry can only be used by the SMT thread that created it. This can
prevent an SMT thread from using predictor entries crafted by a malicious sibling SMT thread.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Tagging can be highly ef fective for predictor state that is comprised of discrete elements, such as an array of recently visited
branch targets. Predictor state can also have dif ferent representations that are not conducive to tagging. For example, some
processors keep a compressed digest of branch history which does not contain discrete elements that can be individually
tagged.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Hardware designers may choose to sanitize microarchitectural predictor state (for example, branch prediction history) when the
processor transitions to a dif ferent context, for example, whenever a system call is invoked. Alternatively , the hardware may
expose instruction(s) that allow software to sanitize predictor state according to the user's threat model. For example, this can
allow operating system software to sanitize predictor state when performing a context switch from one process to another .
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
This technique may not be able to mitigate weaknesses that arise from predictor state that is shared across SMT threads.
Sanitizing predictor state on context switches may also negatively impact performance, either by removing predictor entries that
could be reused when returning to the previous context, or by slowing down the context switch itself.
Phase: Implementation
System software can mitigate this weakness by invoking predictor-state-sanitizing operations (for example, the indirect branch
prediction barrier on Intel x86) when switching from one context to another , according to the hardware vendor's
recommendations.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
This technique may not be able to mitigate weaknesses that arise from predictor state shared across SMT threads. Sanitizing
predictor state may also negatively impact performance in some circumstances.
Phase: Build and Compilation
If the weakness is exposed by a single instruction (or a small set of instructions), then the compiler (or JIT , etc.) can be
configured to prevent the af fected instruction(s) from being generated. One prominent example of this mitigation is retpoline
([REF-1414 ]).
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique is only ef fective for software that is compiled with this mitigation. Additionally , an alternate instruction sequence
may mitigate the weakness on some processors but not others, even when the processors share the same ISA. For example,
retpoline has been documented as ef fective on some x86 processors, but not fully ef fective on other x86 processors.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use control-flow integrity (CFI) techniques to constrain the behavior of instructions that redirect the instruction pointer , such as
indirect branch instructions.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Some CFI techniques may not be able to constrain transient execution, even though they are ef fective at constraining
architectural execution. Or they may be able to provide some additional protection against a transient execution weakness, but
without comprehensively mitigating the weakness. For example, Clang-CFI provides strong architectural CFI properties and can
make some transient execution weaknesses more dif ficult to exploit [ REF-1398 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques (including the use of serialization instructions) that are intended to reduce the number of instructions
that can be executed transiently after a processor event or misprediction.
Effectiveness: Incidental
Note:
Some transient execution weaknesses can be exploited even if a single instruction is executed transiently after a processor
event or mis-prediction. This mitigation strategy has many other pitfalls that prevent it from eliminating this weakness entirely .
For example, see [ REF-1389 ].
Phase: System Configuration3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State t…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1423.html 4/5Some systems may allow the user to disable predictor sharing. For example, this could be a BIOS configuration, or a model-
specific register (MSR) that can be configured by the operating system or virtual machine monitor .
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Disabling predictor sharing can negatively impact performance for some workloads that benefit from shared predictor state.
Phase: Patching and Maintenance
The hardware vendor may provide a patch to, for example, sanitize predictor state when the processor transitions to a dif ferent
context, or to prevent predictor entries from being shared across SMT threads. A patch may also introduce new ISA that allows
software to toggle a mitigation.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
This mitigation may only be fully ef fective if the patch prevents predictor sharing across all contexts that are af fected by the
weakness. Additionally , sanitizing predictor state and/or preventing shared predictor state can negatively impact performance in
some circumstances.
Phase: Documentation
If a hardware feature can allow microarchitectural predictor state to be shared between contexts, SMT threads, or other
architecturally defined boundaries, the hardware designer may opt to disclose this behavior in architecture documentation. This
documentation can inform users about potential consequences and ef fective mitigations.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers, system software vendors, or other agents may choose to restrict the ability of unprivileged software to
access to high-resolution timers that are commonly used to monitor covert channels.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected in hardware by manually inspecting processor specifications. Features that exhibit this
weakness may have microarchitectural predictor state that is shared between hardware threads, execution contexts (for
example, user and kernel), or other components that may host mutually distrusting software (or firmware, etc.).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Manual analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection
methods to improve coverage.
Automated Analysis
Software vendors can release tools that detect presence of known weaknesses on a processor . For example, some of these
tools can attempt to transiently execute a vulnerable code sequence and detect whether code successfully leaks data in a
manner consistent with the weakness under test. Alternatively , some hardware vendors provide enumeration for the presence of
a weakness (or lack of a weakness). These enumeration bits can be checked and reported by system software. For example,
Linux supports these checks for many commodity processors:
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep bugs | head -n 1
bugs : cpu\_meltdown spectre\_v1 spectre\_v2 spec\_store\_bypass l1tf mds swapgs taa itlb\_multihit srbds mmio\_stale\_data
retbleed
Effectiveness: High
Note: This method can be useful for detecting whether a processor if af fected by known weaknesses, but it may not be useful for
detecting unknown weaknesses
Automated Analysis
This weakness can be detected in hardware by employing static or dynamic taint analysis methods [ REF-1401 ]. These methods
can label each predictor entry (or prediction history , etc.) according to the processor context that created it. Taint analysis or
information flow analysis can then be applied to detect when predictor state created in one context can influence predictions
made in another context.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Automated static or dynamic taint analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be
combined with other detection methods to improve coverage.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1423: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State t…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1423.html 5/5This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities
Comments:
Use only when the weakness allows code in one processor context to influence the predictions of code in another processor
context via predictor state that is shared between the two contexts. For example, Branch Target Injection, an instance of CWE-
1423 , can be mitigated by tagging each indirect branch predictor entry according to the processor context in which the entry was
created, thus preventing entries created in one context from being used in a dif ferent context. However , the mitigated indirect
branch predictor can still expose dif ferent weaknesses where malicious predictor entries created in one context are used later in
the same context (context tags cannot prevent this). One such example is Intra-mode Branch Target Injection. W eaknesses of this
sort can map to CWE-1420 .
Suggestion:
CWE-ID Comment
CWE-1420 If a weakness involves a microarchitectural predictor whose state is not shared across processor contexts,
then CWE-1420 may be more appropriate for the mapping task.
 References
[REF-1414] Intel Corporation. "Retpoline: A Branch Target Injection Mitigation". 2022-08-22.
. URL validated: 2023-02-13 .
[REF-1415] Paul Kocher , Jann Horn, Anders Fogh, Daniel Genkin, Daniel Gruss, W erner Haas, Mike Hamburg, Moritz Lipp,
Stefan Mangard, Thomas Prescher , Michael Schwarz and Yuval Yarom. "Spectre Attacks: Exploiting Speculative Execution".
2019-05. < https://spectreattack.com/spectre.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1416] Yuval Yarom and Katrina Falkner . "Flush+Reload: A High Resolution, Low Noise, L3 Cache Side-Channel Attack".
2014. < https://www .usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity14/sec14-paper-yarom.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-02-13 .
[REF-1398] The Clang Team. "Control Flow Integrity". < https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ControlFlowIntegrity .html >. URL validated:
2024-02-13 .
[REF-1389] Alyssa Milburn, Ke Sun and Henrique Kawakami. "Y ou Cannot Always Win the Race: Analyzing the LFENCE/JMP
Mitigation for Branch Target Injection". 2022-03-08. < https://arxiv .org/abs/2203.04277 >. URL validated: 2024-02-22 .
[REF-1400] Intel Corporation. "Refined Speculative Execution Terminology". 2022-03-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1401] Neta Bar Kama and Roope Kaivola. "Hardware Security Leak Detection by Symbolic Simulation". 2021-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2023-09-19
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Scott D. Constable Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)David Kaplan AMD
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Rafael Dossantos, Abraham Fernandez Rubio, Alric Althof f, Lyndon Fawcett Arm
Members of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Jason Oberg Cycuity
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Priya B. Iyer Intel Corporation
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Nicole Fern Riscure
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group