3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-396: Declaration of Catch for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/396.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-396: Declaration of Catch for Generic Exception
Weakness ID: 396
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Catching overly broad exceptions promotes complex error handling code that is more likely to contain security vulnerabilities.
 Extended Description
Multiple catch blocks can get ugly and repetitive, but "condensing" catch blocks by catching a high-level class like Exception can
obscure exceptions that deserve special treatment or that should not be caught at this point in the program. Catching an overly broad
exception essentially defeats the purpose of a language's typed exceptions, and can become particularly dangerous if the program
grows and begins to throw new types of exceptions. The new exception types will not receive any attention.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 705 Incorrect Control Flow Scoping
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code excerpt handles three types of exceptions in an identical fashion.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(good code) Example Language: Java 
try {
doExchange();
}
catch (IOException e) {
logger.error("doExchange failed", e);
}
catch (InvocationTargetException e) {
logger.error("doExchange failed", e);
}
catch (SQLException e) {3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-396: Declaration of Catch for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/396.html 2/3At first blush, it may seem preferable to deal with these exceptions in a single catch block, as follows:
However , if doExchange() is modified to throw a new type of exception that should be handled in some dif ferent kind of way , the broad
catch block will prevent the compiler from pointing out the situation. Further , the new catch block will now also handle exceptions
derived from RuntimeException such as ClassCastException, and NullPointerException, which is not the programmer's intent.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 388 7PK - Errors
MemberOf 960 SFP Secondary Cluster: Ambiguous Exception Type
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Overly-Broad Catch Block
Software Fault Patterns SFP5 Ambiguous Exception Type
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-396
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-396
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 9: Catching Exceptions."
Page 157. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-396.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-396. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
logger.error("doExchange failed", e);
}
(bad code) 
try {
doExchange();
}
catch (Exception e) {
logger.error("doExchange failed", e);
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-396: Declaration of Catch for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/396.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-03-06 Drew Buttner MITRE
Suggested additional Applicable\_Platforms and modification to extended description.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names