3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1236: Improper Neutralization of Formula Elements in a CSV File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1236.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1236: Improper Neutralization of Formula Elements in a CSV File
Weakness ID: 1236
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product saves user-provided information into a Comma-Separated V alue (CSV) file, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly
neutralizes special elements that could be interpreted as a command when the file is opened by a spreadsheet product.
 Extended Description
User-provided data is often saved to traditional databases. This data can be exported to a CSV file, which allows users to read the
data using spreadsheet software such as Excel, Numbers, or Calc. This software interprets entries beginning with '=' as formulas,
which are then executed by the spreadsheet software. The software's formula language often allows methods to access hyperlinks or
the local command line, and frequently allows enough characters to invoke an entire script. Attackers can populate data fields which,
when saved to a CSV file, may attempt information exfiltration or other malicious activity when automatically executed by the
spreadsheet software.
 Alternate T erms
CSV Injection
Formula Injection
Excel Macro Injection
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThe weakness is in the implementation of a software's CSV export feature, in particular how it formats formula
entries as the output gets flattened into a text file.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Other (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Current versions of Excel warn users of untrusted content.Low
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1236: Improper Neutralization of Formula Elements in a CSV File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1236.html 2/3Example 1
Hyperlinks or other commands can be executed when a cell begins with the formula identifier , '='
Stripping the leading equals sign, or simply not executing formulas from untrusted sources, impedes malicious activity .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-12134 Low privileged user can trigger CSV injection through a contact form field value
CVE-2019-4521 Cloud management product allows arbitrary command execution via CSV injection
CVE-2019-17661 CSV injection in content management system via formula code in a first or last name
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
When generating CSV output, ensure that formula-sensitive metacharacters are ef fectively escaped or removed from all data
before storage in the resultant CSV . Risky characters include '=' (equal), '+' (plus), '-' (minus), and '@' (at).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Unfortunately , there is no perfect solution, since dif ferent spreadsheet products act dif ferently .
Phase: Implementation
If a field starts with a formula character , prepend it with a ' (single apostrophe), which prevents Excel from executing the formula.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: It is not clear how ef fective this mitigation is with other spreadsheet software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Certain implementations of spreadsheet software might disallow formulas from executing if the file is untrusted, or if the file is not
authored by the current user .
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: This mitigation has limited ef fectiveness because it often depends on end users opening spreadsheet software safely .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-21] OW ASP. "CSV Injection". 2020-02-02. < https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/CSV\_Injection >.
[REF-22] Jamie Rougvie. "Data Extraction to Command Execution CSV Injection". 2019-09-06.
.
[REF-23] George Mauer . "The Absurdly Underestimated Dangers of CSV Injection". 2017-10-07.
.
[REF-24] James Kettle. "Comma Separated V ulnerabilities". 2014-08-29. < https://rstforums.com/forum/topic/82690-comma-
separated-vulnerabilities/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
(attack code) Example Language: Other 
=HYPERLINK(link\_location, [friendly\_name])
(good code) 
HYPERLINK(link\_location, [friendly\_name])3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1236: Improper Neutralization of Formula Elements in a CSV File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1236.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-11-21
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications