3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-126: Buﬀer Over-read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/126.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-126: Buffer Over-read
Weakness ID: 126
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product reads from a buf fer using buf fer access mechanisms such as indexes or pointers that reference memory locations after
the targeted buf fer.
 Extended Description
This typically occurs when the pointer or its index is incremented to a position beyond the bounds of the buf fer or when pointer
arithmetic results in a position outside of the valid memory location to name a few . This may result in exposure of sensitive information
or possibly a crash.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 125 Out-of-bounds Read
ChildOf 788 Access of Memory Location After End of Buf fer
CanFollow 170 Improper Null Termination
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
By reading out-of-bounds memory , an attacker might be able to get secret values, such as memory
addresses, which can be bypass protection mechanisms such as ASLR in order to improve the
reliability and likelihood of exploiting a separate weakness to achieve code execution instead of just
denial of service.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following C/C++ example the method processMessageFromSocket() will get a message from a socket, placed into a buf fer, and
will parse the contents of the buf fer into a structure that contains the message length and the message body . A for loop is used to
copy the message body into a local character string which will be passed to another method for processing.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int processMessageFromSocket(int socket) {
int success;
char buffer[BUFFER\_SIZE];
char message[MESSAGE\_SIZE];
// get message from socket and store into buffer
//Ignoring possibliity that buffer > BUFFER\_SIZE
if (getMessage(socket, buffer, BUFFER\_SIZE) > 0) {3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-126: Buﬀer Over-read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/126.html 2/3However , the message length variable from the structure is used as the condition for ending the for loop without validating that the
message length variable accurately reflects the length of the message body ( CWE-606 ). This can result in a buf fer over-read ( CWE-
125) by reading from memory beyond the bounds of the buf fer if the message length variable indicates a length that is longer than the
size of a message body ( CWE-130 ).
Example 2
The following C/C++ example demonstrates a buf fer over-read due to a missing NULL terminator . The main method of a pattern
matching utility that looks for a specific pattern within a specific file uses the string strncopy() method to copy the command line user
input file name and pattern to the Filename and Pattern character arrays respectively .
However , the code do not take into account that strncpy() will not add a NULL terminator when the source buf fer is equal in length of
longer than that provide size attribute. Therefore if a user enters a filename or pattern that are the same size as (or larger than) their
respective character arrays, a NULL terminator will not be added ( CWE-170 ) which leads to the printf() read beyond the expected end
of the Filename and Pattern buf fers.
To fix this problem, be sure to subtract 1 from the sizeof() call to allow room for the null byte to be added.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-1733 Text editor has out-of-bounds read past end of line while indenting C code
CVE-2014-0160 Chain: "Heartbleed" bug receives an inconsistent length parameter ( CWE-130 ) enabling an out-of-
bounds read ( CWE-126 ), returning memory that could include private cryptographic keys and other
sensitive data.
CVE-2009-2523 Chain: product does not handle when an input string is not NULL terminated, leading to buf fer over-
read or heap-based buf fer overflow .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)// place contents of the buffer into message structure
ExMessage \*msg = recastBuffer(buffer);
// copy message body into string for processing
int index;
for (index = 0; index < msg->msgLength; index++) {
message[index] = msg->msgBody[index];
}
message[index] = '\0';
// process message
success = processMessage(message);
}
return success;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv)
{
char Filename[256];
char Pattern[32];
/\* Validate number of parameters and ensure valid content \*/
...
/\* copy filename parameter to variable, may cause off-by-one overflow \*/
strncpy(Filename, argv[1], sizeof(Filename));
/\* copy pattern parameter to variable, may cause off-by-one overflow \*/
strncpy(Pattern, argv[2], sizeof(Pattern));
printf("Searching file: %s for the pattern: %s\n", Filename, Pattern);
Scan\_File(Filename, Pattern);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
/\* copy filename parameter to variable, no off-by-one overflow \*/
strncpy(Filename, argv[2], sizeof(Filename)-1);
Filename[255]='\0';
/\* copy pattern parameter to variable, no off-by-one overflow \*/
strncpy(Pattern, argv[3], sizeof(Pattern)-1);
Pattern[31]='\0';3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-126: Buﬀer Over-read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/126.html 3/3
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
These problems may be resultant from missing sentinel values ( CWE-463 ) or trusting a user-influenced input length variable.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Buffer over-read
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 References
[REF-1034] Raoul Strackx, Yves Younan, Pieter Philippaerts, Frank Piessens, Sven Lachmund and Thomas W alter. "Breaking the
memory secrecy assumption". ACM. 2009-03-31. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1519144.1519145 >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-1035] Fermin J. Serna. "The info leak era on software exploitation". 2012-07-25. < https://media.blackhat.com/bh-us-
12/Briefings/Serna/BH\_US\_12\_Serna\_Leak\_Era\_Slides.pdf >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
