3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-350: Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/350.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-350: Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action
Weakness ID: 350
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs reverse DNS resolution on an IP address to obtain the hostname and make a security decision, but it does not
properly ensure that the IP address is truly associated with the hostname.
 Extended Description
Since DNS names can be easily spoofed or misreported, and it may be dif ficult for the product to detect if a trusted DNS server has
been compromised, DNS names do not constitute a valid authentication mechanism.
When the product performs a reverse DNS resolution for an IP address, if an attacker controls the DNS server for that IP address,
then the attacker can cause the server to return an arbitrary hostname. As a result, the attacker may be able to bypass authentication,
cause the wrong hostname to be recorded in log files to hide activities, or perform other attacks.
Attackers can spoof DNS names by either (1) compromising a DNS server and modifying its records (sometimes called DNS cache
poisoning), or (2) having legitimate control over a DNS server associated with their IP address.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 807 Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision
ChildOf 290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
CanPrecede 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
Malicious users can fake authentication information by providing false DNS information.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code samples use a DNS lookup in order to decide whether or not an inbound request is from a trusted host. If an
attacker can poison the DNS cache, they can gain trusted status.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
struct hostent \*hp;struct in\_addr myaddr;
char\* tHost = "trustme.example.com";
myaddr.s\_addr=inet\_addr(ip\_addr\_string);
hp = gethostbyaddr((char \*) &myaddr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
if (hp && !strncmp(hp->h\_name, tHost, sizeof(tHost))) {
trusted = true;
} else {
trusted = false;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-350: Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/350.html 2/3IP addresses are more reliable than DNS names, but they can also be spoofed. Attackers can easily forge the source IP address of
the packets they send, but response packets will return to the forged IP address. To see the response packets, the attacker has to
sniff the traf fic between the victim machine and the forged IP address. In order to accomplish the required snif fing, attackers typically
attempt to locate themselves on the same subnet as the victim machine. Attackers may be able to circumvent this requirement by
using source routing, but source routing is disabled across much of the Internet today . In summary , IP address verification can be a
useful part of an authentication scheme, but it should not be the single factor required for authentication.
Example 2
In these examples, a connection is established if a request is made by a trusted host.
These examples check if a request is from a trusted host before responding to a request, but the code only verifies the hostname as
stored in the request packet. An attacker can spoof the hostname, thus impersonating a trusted client.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1488 Does not do double-reverse lookup to prevent DNS spoofing.
CVE-2001-1500 Does not verify reverse-resolved hostnames in DNS.
CVE-2000-1221 Authentication bypass using spoofed reverse-resolved DNS hostnames.
CVE-2002-0804 Authentication bypass using spoofed reverse-resolved DNS hostnames.
CVE-2001-1155 Filter does not properly check the result of a reverse DNS lookup, which could allow remote attackers
to bypass intended access restrictions via DNS spoofing.
CVE-2004-0892 Reverse DNS lookup used to spoof trusted content in intermediary .
CVE-2003-0981 Product records the reverse DNS name of a visitor in the logs, allowing spoofing and resultant XSS.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use other means of identity verification that cannot be simply spoofed. Possibilities include a username/password or certificate.
Phase: ImplementationString ip = request.getRemoteAddr();
InetAddress addr = InetAddress.getByName(ip);
if (addr.getCanonicalHostName().endsWith("trustme.com")) {
trusted = true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
IPAddress hostIPAddress = IPAddress.Parse(RemoteIpAddress);
IPHostEntry hostInfo = Dns.GetHostByAddress(hostIPAddress);
if (hostInfo.HostName.EndsWith("trustme.com")) {
trusted = true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
sd = socket(AF\_INET, SOCK\_DGRAM, 0);
serv.sin\_family = AF\_INET;
serv.sin\_addr.s\_addr = htonl(INADDR\_ANY);
servr.sin\_port = htons(1008);
bind(sd, (struct sockaddr \*) & serv, sizeof(serv));
while (1) {
memset(msg, 0x0, MAX\_MSG);
clilen = sizeof(cli);
h=gethostbyname(inet\_ntoa(cliAddr.sin\_addr));
if (h->h\_name==...) n = recvfrom(sd, msg, MAX\_MSG, 0, (struct sockaddr \*) & cli, &clilen);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
while(true) {
DatagramPacket rp=new DatagramPacket(rData,rData.length);
outSock.receive(rp);
String in = new String(p.getData(),0, rp.getLength());
InetAddress IPAddress = rp.getAddress();
int port = rp.getPort();
if ((rp.getHostName()==...) & (in==...)) {
out = secret.getBytes();
DatagramPacket sp =new DatagramPacket(out,out.length, IPAddress, port);
outSock.send(sp);
}
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-350: Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/350.html 3/3Perform proper forward and reverse DNS lookups to detect DNS spoofing.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 949 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Endpoint Authentication
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
CWE-350 , CWE-247 , and CWE-292 were merged into CWE-350 in CWE 2.5. CWE-247 was originally derived from Seven
Pernicious Kingdoms, CWE-350 from PLOVER, and CWE-292 from CLASP . All taxonomies focused closely on the use of reverse
DNS for authentication of incoming requests.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Improperly Trusted Reverse DNS
CLASP Trusting self-reported DNS name
Software Fault Patterns SFP29 Faulty endpoint authentication
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-142 DNS Cache Poisoning
CAPEC-275 DNS Rebinding
CAPEC-73 User-Controlled Filename
CAPEC-89 Pharming
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 15: Not Updating Easily ."
Page 231. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 24: Trusting Network
Name Resolution." Page 361. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 16, "DNS
Spoofing", Page 1002. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
