3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1250: Improper Preservation of Consistency Between Independent Representations of Shared …
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1250.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1250: Improper Preservation of Consistency Between Independent
Representations of Shared State
Weakness ID: 1250
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has or supports multiple distributed components or sub-systems that are each required to keep their own local copy of
shared data - such as state or cache - but the product does not ensure that all local copies remain consistent with each other .
 Extended Description
In highly distributed environments, or on systems with distinct physical components that operate independently , there is often a need
for each component to store and update its own local copy of key data such as state or cache, so that all components have the same
"view" of the overall system and operate in a coordinated fashion. For example, users of a social media service or a massively
multiplayer online game might be using their own personal computers while also interacting with dif ferent physical hosts in a globally
distributed service, but all participants must be able to have the same "view" of the world. Alternately , a processor's Memory
Management Unit (MMU) might have "shadow" MMUs to distribute its workload, and all shadow MMUs are expected to have the
same accessible ranges of memory .
In such environments, it becomes critical for the product to ensure that this "shared state" is consistently modified across all
distributed systems. If state is not consistently maintained across all systems, then critical transactions might take place out of order ,
or some users might not get the same data as other users. When this inconsistency af fects correctness of operations, it can introduce
vulnerabilities in mechanisms that depend on consistent state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
ParentOf 1249 Application-Level Admin Tool with Inconsistent V iew of Underlying Operating System
ParentOf 1251 Mirrored Regions with Dif ferent V alues
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
Security Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Suppose a processor's Memory Management Unit (MMU) has 5 other shadow MMUs to distribute its workload for its various cores.
Each MMU has the start address and end address of "accessible" memory . Any time this accessible range changes (as per the
processor's boot status), the main MMU sends an update message to all the shadow MMUs.
Suppose the interconnect fabric does not prioritize such "update" packets over other general traf fic packets. This introduces a race
condition. If an attacker can flood the target with enough messages so that some of those attack packets reach the target before the
new access ranges gets updated, then the attacker can leverage this scenario.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1250: Improper Preservation of Consistency Between Independent Representations of Shared …
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1250.html 2/2MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Issues related to state and cache - creation, preservation, and update - are a significant gap in CWE that is expected to be
addressed in future versions. It likely has relationships to concurrency and synchronization, incorrect behavior order , and other areas
that already have some coverage in CWE, although the focus has typically been on independent processes on the same operating
system - not on independent systems that are all a part of a larger system-of-systems.
 References
[REF-1069] Tanakorn Leesatapornwongsa, Jef frey F . Lukman, Shan Lu and Haryadi S. Gunawi. "T axDC: A Taxonomy of Non-
Deterministic Concurrency Bugs in Datacenter Distributed Systems". 2016. < https://ucare.cs.uchicago.edu/pdf/asplos16-
TaxDC.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-13
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
