3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-370: Missing Check for Certiﬁcate Revocation after Initial Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/370.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-370: Missing Check for Certificate Revocation after Initial Check
Weakness ID: 370
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not check the revocation status of a certificate after its initial revocation check, which can cause the product to
perform privileged actions even after the certificate is revoked at a later time.
 Extended Description
If the revocation status of a certificate is not checked before each action that requires privileges, the system may be subject to a race
condition. If a certificate is revoked after the initial check, all subsequent actions taken with the owner of the revoked certificate will
lose all benefits guaranteed by the certificate. In fact, it is almost certain that the use of a revoked certificate indicates malicious
activity .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 299 Improper Check for Certificate Revocation
PeerOf 296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust
PeerOf 297 Improper V alidation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
PeerOf 298 Improper V alidation of Certificate Expiration
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Trust may be assigned to an entity who is not who it claims to be.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
Data from an untrusted (and possibly malicious) source may be integrated.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Data may be disclosed to an entity impersonating a trusted entity , resulting in information
disclosure.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code checks a certificate before performing an action.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if (X509\_V\_OK==foo)
//do stuff
fSSL t if lt(l)3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-370: Missing Check for Certiﬁcate Revocation after Initial Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/370.html 2/2While the code performs the certificate verification before each action, it does not check the result of the verification after the initial
attempt. The certificate may have been revoked in the time between the privileged actions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that certificates are checked for revoked status before each use of a protected resource. If the certificate is checked
before each access of a protected resource, the delay subject to a possible race condition becomes almost negligible and
significantly reduces the risk associated with this issue.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 988 SFP Secondary Cluster: Race Condition Window
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Race condition in checking for certificate revocation
Software Fault Patterns SFP20 Race Condition Window
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
//do more stuff without the check.