3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-479: Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/479.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-479: Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function
Weakness ID: 479
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product defines a signal handler that calls a non-reentrant function.
 Extended Description
Non-reentrant functions are functions that cannot safely be called, interrupted, and then recalled before the first call has finished
without resulting in memory corruption. This can lead to an unexpected system state and unpredictable results with a variety of
potential consequences depending on context, including denial of service and code execution.
Many functions are not reentrant, but some of them can result in the corruption of memory if they are used in a signal handler . The
function call syslog() is an example of this. In order to perform its functionality , it allocates a small amount of memory as "scratch
space." If syslog() is suspended by a signal call and the signal handler calls syslog(), the memory used by both of these functions
enters an undefined, and possibly , exploitable state. Implementations of malloc() and free() manage metadata in global structures in
order to track which memory is allocated versus which memory is available, but they are non-reentrant. Simultaneous calls to these
functions can cause corruption of the metadata.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 663 Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context
ChildOf 828 Signal Handler with Functionality that is not Asynchronous-Safe
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
It may be possible to execute arbitrary code through the use of a write-what-where condition.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Modify Application Data
Signal race conditions often result in data corruption.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a signal handler uses syslog() to log a message:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) 
char \*message;
void sh(int dummy) {
syslog(LOG\_NOTICE,"%s\n",message);
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-479: Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/479.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-0893 signal handler calls function that ultimately uses malloc()
CVE-2004-2259 SIGCHLD signal to FTP server can cause crash under heavy load while executing non-reentrant
functions like malloc/free.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Require languages or libraries that provide reentrant functionality , or otherwise make it easier to avoid this weakness.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design signal handlers to only set flags rather than perform complex functionality .
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that non-reentrant functions are not found in signal handlers.
Phase: Implementation
Use sanity checks to reduce the timing window for exploitation of race conditions. This is only a partial solution, since many
attacks might fail, but other attacks still might work within the narrower window , even accidentally .
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 745 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 12 - Signals (SIG)
MemberOf 847 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 879 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 11 - Signals (SIG)
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1166 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 11. Signals (SIG)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
}
int main(int argc,char\* argv[]) {
...
signal(SIGHUP,sh);
signal(SIGTERM,sh);
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
If the execution of the first call to the signal handler is suspended after invoking syslog(), and the signal handler is called a second time,
the memory allocated by syslog() enters an undefined, and possibly, exploitable state.3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-479: Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/479.html 3/3CLASP Unsafe function call from a signal handler
CER T C Secure Coding SIG30-C Exact Call only asynchronous-safe functions within signal handlers
CER T C Secure Coding SIG34-C Do not call signal() from within interruptible signal handlers
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)EXP01-J Never dereference null pointers
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 13, "Signal
Vulnerabilities", Page 791. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names