3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1282: Assumed-Immutable Data is Stored in Writable Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1282.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1282: Assumed-Immutable Data is Stored in W ritable Memory
Weakness ID: 1282
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Immutable data, such as a first-stage bootloader , device identifiers, and "write-once" configuration settings are stored in writable
memory that can be re-programmed or updated in the field.
 Extended Description
Security services such as secure boot, authentication of code and data, and device attestation all require assets such as the first
stage bootloader , public keys, golden hash digests, etc. which are implicitly trusted. Storing these assets in read-only memory (ROM),
fuses, or one-time programmable (OTP) memory provides strong integrity guarantees and provides a root of trust for securing the rest
of the system. Security is lost if assets assumed to be immutable can be modified.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
CanPrecede 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationKeys, code, configuration settings, and other data should be programmed in write-once or read-only memory
instead of writable memory .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Cryptographic hash functions are commonly used to create unique fixed-length digests used to ensure the integrity of code and keys.
A golden digest is stored on the device and compared to the digest computed from the data to be verified. If the digests match, the
data has not been maliciously modified. If an attacker can modify the golden digest they then have the ability to store arbitrary data
that passes the verification check. Hash digests used to verify public keys and early stage boot code should be immutable, with the
strongest protection of fered by hardware immutability .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: ImplementationAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1282: Assumed-Immutable Data is Stored in Writable Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1282.html 2/2All immutable code or data should be programmed into ROM or write-once memory .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.3, CWE-1282 and CWE-1233 are being investigated for potential duplication or overlap.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-458 Flash Memory Attacks
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-15
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
