3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1104: Use of Unmaintained Third Party Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1104.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1104: Use of Unmaintained Third Party Components
Weakness ID: 1104
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product relies on third-party components that are not actively supported or maintained by the original developer or a trusted proxy
for the original developer .
 Extended Description
Reliance on components that are no longer maintained can make it dif ficult or impossible to fix significant bugs, vulnerabilities, or
quality issues. In ef fect, unmaintained code can become obsolete.
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or time-consuming
to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1357 Reliance on Insuf ficiently Trustworthy Component
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Applicable Platforms
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1352 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A06:2021 - V ulnerable and Outdated Components
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1104: Use of Unmaintained Third Party Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1104.html 2/2Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1212] "A06:2021 - V ulnerable and Outdated Components". OW ASP. 2021-09-24. < https://owasp.org/T op10/A06\_2021-
Vulnerable\_and\_Outdated\_Components/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications