3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-762: Mismatched Memory Management Routines (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/762.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-762: Mismatched Memory Management Routines
Weakness ID: 762
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product attempts to return a memory resource to the system, but it calls a release function that is not compatible with the function
that was originally used to allocate that resource.
 Extended Description
This weakness can be generally described as mismatching memory management routines, such as:
The memory was allocated on the stack (automatically), but it was deallocated using the memory management routine free()
(CWE-590 ), which is intended for explicitly allocated heap memory .
The memory was allocated explicitly using one set of memory management functions, and deallocated using a dif ferent set.
For example, memory might be allocated with malloc() in C++ instead of the new operator , and then deallocated with the
delete operator .
When the memory management functions are mismatched, the consequences may be as severe as code execution, memory
corruption, or program crash. Consequences and ease of exploit will vary depending on the implementation of the routines and the
object being managed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 763 Release of Invalid Pointer or Reference
ParentOf 590 Free of Memory not on the Heap
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example allocates a BarObj object using the new operator in C++, however , the programmer then deallocates the object using
free(), which may lead to unexpected behavior .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
void foo(){
BarObj \*ptr = new BarObj()
/\* do some work with ptr here \*/
...3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-762: Mismatched Memory Management Routines (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/762.html 2/3Instead, the programmer should have either created the object with one of the malloc family functions, or else deleted the object with
the delete operator .
Example 2
In this example, the program does not use matching functions such as malloc/free, new/delete, and new[]/delete[] to
allocate/deallocate the resource.
Example 3
In this example, the program calls the delete[] function on non-heap memory .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Only call matching memory management functions. Do not mix and match routines. For example, when you allocate a buf fer
with malloc(), dispose of the original pointer with free().
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Choose a language or tool that provides automatic memory management, or makes manual memory management less error-
prone.
For example, glibc in Linux provides protection against free of invalid pointers.
When using Xcode to target OS X or iOS, enable automatic reference counting (ARC) [ REF-391 ].
To help correctly and consistently manage memory when programming in C++, consider using a smart pointer class such as
std::auto\_ptr (defined by ISO/IEC ISO/IEC 14882:2003), std::shared\_ptr and std::unique\_ptr (specified by an upcoming revision
of the C++ standard, informally referred to as C++ 1x), or equivalent solutions such as Boost.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, glibc in Linux provides protection against free of invalid pointers.free(ptr);
}
(good code) Example Language: C++ 
void foo(){
BarObj \*ptr = new BarObj()
/\* do some work with ptr here \*/
...
delete ptr;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class A {
void foo();
};
void A::foo(){
int \*ptr;
ptr = (int\*)malloc(sizeof(int));
delete ptr;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class A{
void foo(bool);
};
void A::foo(bool heap) {
int localArray[2] = {
11,22
};
int \*p = localArray;
if (heap){
p = new int[2];
}
delete[] p;
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-762: Mismatched Memory Management Routines (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/762.html 3/3Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a language that provides abstractions for memory allocation and deallocation.
Phase: T esting
Use a tool that dynamically detects memory management problems, such as valgrind.
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1172 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 51. Microsoft Windows (WIN)
MemberOf 1237 SFP Primary Cluster: Faulty Resource Release
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
This weakness is possible in any programming language that allows manual management of memory .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding WIN30-C Exact Properly pair allocation and deallocation functions
Software Fault Patterns SFP12 Faulty Memory Release
 References
[REF-657] "boost C++ Library Smart Pointers". < https://www .boost.org/doc/libs/1\_38\_0/libs/smart\_ptr/smart\_ptr .htm>. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-480] "V algrind". < http://valgrind.org/ >.
[REF-391] iOS Developer Library . "Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". 2013-08-08.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-08
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2010-04-30 Martin Sebor Cisco Systems, Inc.
Provided improvement to existing Mitigation
 Modifications
