3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-293: Using Referer Field for Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/293.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-293: Using Referer Field for Authentication
Weakness ID: 293
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The referer field in HTTP requests can be easily modified and, as such, is not a valid means of message integrity checking.
 Alternate T erms
referrer: While the proper spelling might be regarded as "referrer ," the HTTP RFCs and their implementations use "referer ," so
this is regarded as the correct spelling.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
The referer field in HTML requests can be simply modified by malicious users, rendering it useless as a means of checking the validity
of the request in question.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Actions, which may not be authorized otherwise, can be carried out as if they were validated by the
server referred to.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code samples check a packet's referer in order to decide whether or not an inbound request is from a trusted host.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
String trustedReferer = "http://www.example.com/"
while(true){
n = read(newsock, buffer, BUFSIZE);
requestPacket = processPacket(buffer, n);
if (requestPacket.referer == trustedReferer){
openNewSecureSession(requestPacket);
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
boolean processConnectionRequest(HttpServletRequest request){
Sti f ttHd("f")3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-293: Using Referer Field for Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/293.html 2/2These examples check if a request is from a trusted referer before responding to a request, but the code only verifies the referer
name as stored in the request packet. An attacker can spoof the referer , thus impersonating a trusted client.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
In order to usefully check if a given action is authorized, some means of strong authentication and method protection must be
used. Use other means of authorization that cannot be simply spoofed. Possibilities include a username/password or certificate.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 949 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Endpoint Authentication
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Using referrer field for authentication
Software Fault Patterns SFP29 Faulty endpoint authentication
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 17, "Referer
Request Header", Page 1030. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
String referer = request.getHeader("referer")
String trustedReferer = "http://www.example.com/"
if(referer.equals(trustedReferer)){
openPrivilegedConnection(request);
return true;
}
else{
sendPrivilegeError(request);
return false;
}
}