3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1191.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and T est Interface W ith Improper Access Control
Weakness ID: 1191
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The chip does not implement or does not correctly perform access control to check whether users are authorized to access internal
registers and test modes through the physical debug/test interface.
 Extended Description
A device's internal information may be accessed through a scan chain of interconnected internal registers, usually through a JT AG
interface. The JT AG interface provides access to these registers in a serial fashion in the form of a scan chain for the purposes of
debugging programs running on a device. Since almost all information contained within a device may be accessed over this interface,
device manufacturers typically insert some form of authentication and authorization to prevent unintended use of this sensitive
information. This mechanism is implemented in addition to on-chip protections that are already present.
If authorization, authentication, or some other form of access control is not implemented or not implemented correctly , a user may be
able to bypass on-chip protection mechanisms through the debug interface.
Sometimes, designers choose not to expose the debug pins on the motherboard. Instead, they choose to hide these pins in the
intermediate layers of the board. This is primarily done to work around the lack of debug authorization inside the chip. In such a
scenario (without debug authorization), when the debug interface is exposed, chip internals are accessible to an attacker .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
PeerOf 1263 Improper Physical Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
PeerOf 1299 Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application DataHigh
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read MemoryHigh
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsHigh
Integrity Technical Impact: Modify Memory HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1191.html 2/5IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application DataHigh
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection MechanismHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A home, WiFi-router device implements a login prompt which prevents an unauthorized user from issuing any commands on the
device until appropriate credentials are provided. The credentials are protected on the device and are checked for strength against
attack.
JTAG is useful to chip and device manufacturers during design, testing, and production and is included in nearly every product.
Without proper authentication and authorization, the interface may allow tampering with a product.
Example 2
The following example code is a snippet from the JT AG wrapper module in the RISC-V debug module of the HACK@DAC'21
Openpiton SoC [ REF-1355 ]. To make sure that the JT AG is accessed securely , the developers have included a primary authentication
mechanism based on a password.
The developers employed a Finite State Machine (FSM) to implement this authentication. When a user intends to read from or write to
the JT AG module, they must input a password.
In the subsequent state of the FSM module, the entered password undergoes Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
calculation using an internal HMAC submodule. Once the HMAC for the entered password is computed by the HMAC submodule, the
FSM transitions to the next state, where it compares the computed HMAC with the expected HMAC for the password.
If the computed HMAC matches the expected HMAC, the FSM grants the user permission to perform read or write operations on the
JTAG module. [ REF-1352 ]
However , in the given vulnerable part of the code, the JT AG module has not defined a limitation for several continuous wrong
password attempts. This omission poses a significant security risk, allowing attackers to carry out brute-force attacks without
restrictions.
Without a limitation on wrong password attempts, an attacker can repeatedly guess dif ferent passwords until they gain unauthorized
access to the JT AG module. This leads to various malicious activities, such as unauthorized read from or write to debug module
interface.
To mitigate the mentioned vulnerability , developers need to implement a restriction on the number of consecutive incorrect password
attempts allowed by the JT AG module, which can achieve by incorporating a mechanism that temporarily locks the module after a
certain number of failed attempts.[ REF-1353 ][REF-1354 ](bad code) Example Language: Other 
If the JTAG interface on this device is not hidden by the manufacturer, the interface may be identified using tools such as JTAGulator. If it
is hidden but not disabled, it can be exposed by physically wiring to the board.
By issuing a "halt" command before the OS starts, the unauthorized user pauses the watchdog timer and prevents the router from
restarting (once the watchdog timer would have expired). Having paused the router, an unauthorized user is able to execute code and
inspect and modify data in the device, even extracting all of the router's firmware. This allows the user to examine the router and
potentially exploit it.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
In order to prevent exposing the debugging interface, manufacturers might try to obfuscate the JTAG interface or blow device internal
fuses to disable the JTAG interface. Adding authentication and authorization to this interface makes use by unauthorized individuals much
more difficult.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
PassChkValid: begin
if(hashValid) begin
if(exp\_hash == pass\_hash) begin
pass\_check = 1'b1;
end else begin
pass\_check = 1'b0;
end
state\_d = Idle;
end else begin
state\_d = PassChkValid;
end
end
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
case (state\_q)
Idlbi3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1191.html 3/5Example 3
The example code below is taken from the JT AG access control mechanism of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton SoC [ REF-
1364 ]. Access to JT AG allows users to access sensitive information in the system. Hence, access to JT AG is controlled using
cryptographic authentication of the users. In this example (see the vulnerable code source), the password checker uses HMAC-
SHA256 for authentication. It takes a 512-bit secret message from the user , hashes it using HMAC, and compares its output with the
expected output to determine the authenticity of the user .
The vulnerable code shows an incorrect implementation of the HMAC authentication where it only uses the least significant 32 bits of
the secret message for the authentication (the remaining 480 bits are hard coded as zeros). As a result, the system is susceptible to
brute-force attacks on the access control mechanism of JT AG, where the attacker only needs to determine 32 bits of the secret
message instead of 512 bits.
To mitigate this issue, remove the zero padding and use all 512 bits of the secret message for HMAC authentication [ REF-1365 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-18827 chain: JT AG interface is not disabled ( CWE-1191 ) during ROM code execution, introducing a race
condition ( CWE-362 ) to extract encryption keys
 Potential MitigationsIdle: begin
...
else if ( (dm::dtm\_op\_e'(dmi.op) == dm::DTM\_PASS) && (miss\_pass\_check\_cnt\_q != 2'b11) )
begin
state\_d = Write;
pass\_mode = 1'b1;
end
...
end
...
PassChkValid: begin
if(hashValid) begin
if(exp\_hash == pass\_hash) begin
pass\_check = 1'b1;
end else begin
pass\_check = 1'b0;
miss\_pass\_check\_cnt\_d = miss\_pass\_check\_cnt\_q + 1
end
state\_d = Idle;
end else begin
state\_d = PassChkValid;
end
end
...
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
logic [31-1:0] data\_d, data\_q;
...
logic [512-1:0] pass\_data;
...
Write: begin
...
if (pass\_mode) begin
pass\_data = { {60{8'h00}}, data\_d};
state\_d = PassChk;
pass\_mode = 1'b0;
...
end
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
logic [512-1:0] data\_d, data\_q;
...
logic [512-1:0] pass\_data;
...
Write: begin
...
if (pass\_mode) begin
pass\_data = data\_d;
state\_d = PassChk;
pass\_mode = 1'b0;
...
end
...3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1191.html 4/5Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
If feasible, the manufacturer should disable the JT AG interface or implement authentication and authorization for the JT AG
interface. If authentication logic is added, it should be resistant to timing attacks. Security-sensitive data stored in registers, such
as keys, etc. should be cleared when entering debug mode.
Effectiveness: High
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Authentication and authorization of debug and test interfaces should be part of the architecture and design review process.
Withholding of private register documentation from the debug and test interface public specification ("Security by obscurity")
should not be considered as suf ficient security .
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Dynamic tests should be done in the pre-silicon and post-silicon stages to verify that the debug and test interfaces are not open
by default.
Fuzzing
Tests that fuzz Debug and Test Interfaces should ensure that no access without appropriate authentication and authorization is
possible.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-1191 and CWE-1244 both involve physical debug access, but the weaknesses are dif ferent. CWE-1191 is ef fectively about
missing authorization for a debug interface, i.e. JT AG. CWE-1244 is about providing internal assets with the wrong debug access
level, exposing the asset to untrusted debug agents.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 References
[REF-1037] Kurt Rosenfeld and Ramesh Karri. "Attacks and Defenses for JT AG". 2010-02.
.
[REF-1043] Gopal V ishwakarma and W onjun Lee. "Exploiting JT AG and Its Mitigation in IOT : A Survey". 2018-12-03.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1084] Gopal V ishwakarma and W onjun Lee. "JT AG Explained (finally!): Why "IoT", Software Security Engineers, and
Manufacturers Should Care". < https://www .mdpi.com/1999-5903/10/12/121/pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1085] Bob Molyneaux, Mark McDermott and Anil Sabbavarapu. "Design for Testability & Design for Debug".
.
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1191: On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1191.html 5/5[REF-1355] Florian Zaruba. "dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/71103971e8204de6a61afc17d3653292517d32bf/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L192:L204 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1354] Florian Zaruba. "Fix CWE-1191 in dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/58f984d492fdb0369c82ef10fcbbaa4b9850f9fb/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L200 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1353] Florian Zaruba. "Fix CWE-1191 in dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/58f984d492fdb0369c82ef10fcbbaa4b9850f9fb/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L131 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1352] Florian Zaruba. "dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/71103971e8204de6a61afc17d3653292517d32bf/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L118:L204 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1364] "dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/71103971e8204de6a61afc17d3653292517d32bf/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L82 >. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
[REF-1365] "fix cwe\_1205 in dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/c4f4b832218b50c406dbf9f425d3b654117c1355/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L158 >. URL validated: 2023-07-22 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-18 Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
provided detection methods
2021-10-20 Narasimha Kumar V Mangipudi Lattice Semiconductor
reviewed content changes
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
clarified differences between CWE-1191 and CWE-1244
2021-10-27 Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
suggested additional detail in extended description
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names