3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-332: Insuﬃcient Entropy in PRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/332.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-332: Insufficient Entropy in PRNG
Weakness ID: 332
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The lack of entropy available for , or used by , a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) can be a stability and security threat.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 331 Insuf ficient Entropy
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If a pseudo-random number generator is using a limited entropy source which runs out (if the
generator fails closed), the program may pause or crash.
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
If a PRNG is using a limited entropy source which runs out, and the generator fails open, the
generator could produce predictable random numbers. Potentially a weak source of random
numbers could weaken the encryption method used for authentication of users.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
Chain: JavaScript-based cryptocurrency library can fall back to the insecure Math.random() function
instead of reporting a failure ( CWE-392 ), thus reducing the entropy ( CWE-332 ) and leading to
generation of non-unique cryptographic keys for Bitcoin wallets ( CWE-1391 )
CVE-2019-1715 security product has insuf ficient entropy in the DRBG, allowing collisions and private key discovery
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex
C ("Approved Random Number Generators").
Phase: Implementation
Consider a PRNG that re-seeds itself as needed from high-quality pseudo-random output, such as hardware devices.
Phase: Architecture and Design
When deciding which PRNG to use, look at its sources of entropy . Depending on what your security needs are, you may need to
use a random number generator that always uses strong random data -- i.e., a random number generator that attempts to beAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-332: Insuﬃcient Entropy in PRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/332.html 2/2strong but will fail in a weak way or will always provide some middle ground of protection through techniques like re-seeding.
Generally , something that always provides a predictable amount of strength is preferable.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Insuf ficient entropy in PRNG
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1374] Unciphered. "Randstorm: You Can't Patch a House of Cards". 2023-11-14.
. URL validated: 2023-11-15 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
