3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1247: Improper Protection Against Voltage and Clock Glitches (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1247.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1247: Improper Protection Against V oltage and Clock Glitches
Weakness ID: 1247
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device does not contain or contains incorrectly implemented circuitry or sensors to detect and mitigate voltage and clock glitches
and protect sensitive information or software contained on the device.
 Extended Description
A device might support features such as secure boot which are supplemented with hardware and firmware support. This involves
establishing a chain of trust, starting with an immutable root of trust by checking the signature of the next stage (culminating with the
OS and runtime software) against a golden value before transferring control. The intermediate stages typically set up the system in a
secure state by configuring several access control settings. Similarly , security logic for exercising a debug or testing interface may be
implemented in hardware, firmware, or both. A device needs to guard against fault attacks such as voltage glitches and clock glitches
that an attacker may employ in an attempt to compromise the system.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1384 Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
PeerOf 1332 Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Power Management Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Clock/Counter Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Sensor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Memory; Modify Memory;
Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1247: Improper Protection Against Voltage and Clock Glitches (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1247.html 2/4Below is a representative snippet of C code that is part of the secure-boot flow . A signature of the runtime-firmware image is
calculated and compared against a golden value. If the signatures match, the bootloader loads runtime firmware. If there is no match,
an error halt occurs. If the underlying hardware executing this code does not contain any circuitry or sensors to detect voltage or clock
glitches, an attacker might launch a fault-injection attack right when the signature check is happening (at the location marked with the
comment), causing a bypass of the signature-checking process.
After bypassing secure boot, an attacker can gain access to system assets to which the attacker should not have access.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-17391 Lack of anti-glitch protections allows an attacker to launch a physical attack to bypass the secure boot
and read protected eFuses.
CVE-2021-33478 IP communication firmware allows access to a boot shell via certain impulses
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
At the circuit-level, using Tunable Replica Circuits (TRCs) or special flip-flops such as Razor flip-flops helps mitigate glitch
attacks. W orking at the SoC or platform base, level sensors may be implemented to detect glitches. Implementing redundancy in
security-sensitive code (e.g., where checks are performed)also can help with mitigation of glitch attacks.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Put the processor in an infinite loop, which is then followed by instructions that should not ever be executed, since the loop is not
expected to exit. After the loop, toggle an I/O bit (for oscilloscope monitoring purposes), print a console message, and reenter
the loop. Note that to ensure that the loop exit is actually captured, many NOP instructions should be coded after the loop
branch instruction and before the I/O bit toggle and the print statement.
Margining the clock consists of varying the clock frequency until an anomaly occurs. This could be a continuous frequency
change or it could be a single cycle. The single cycle method is described here. For every 1000th clock pulse, the clock cycle is
shortened by 10 percent. If no ef fect is observed, the width is shortened by 20%. This process is continued in 10% increments
up to and including 50%. Note that the cycle time may be increased as well, down to seconds per cycle.
Separately , the voltage is margined. Note that the voltage could be increased or decreased. Increasing the voltage has limits, as
the circuitry may not be able to withstand a drastically increased voltage. This process starts with a 5% reduction of the DC
supply to the CPU chip for 5 millisecond repeated at 1KHz. If this has no ef fect, the process is repeated, but a 10% reduction is
used. This process is repeated at 10% increments down to a 50% reduction. If no ef fects are observed at 5 millisecond, the
whole process is repeated using a 10 millisecond pulse. If no ef fects are observed, the process is repeated in 10 millisecond
increments out to 100 millisecond pulses.
While these are suggested starting points for testing circuitry for weaknesses, the limits may need to be pushed further at the
risk of device damage. See [ REF-1217 ] for descriptions of Smart Card attacks against a clock (section 14.6.2) and using a
voltage glitch (section 15.5.3).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
During the implementation phase where actual hardware is available, specialized hardware tools and apparatus such as
ChipWhisperer may be used to check if the platform is indeed susceptible to voltage and clock glitching attacks.
Architecture or Design Review
Review if the protections against glitching merely transfer the attack target. For example, suppose a critical authentication
routine that an attacker would want to bypass is given the protection of modifying certain artifacts from within that specific routine(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
if (signature\_matches) // <-Glitch Here
{
load\_runtime\_firmware();
}
else
{
do\_not\_load\_runtime\_firmware();
}
...
(good code) 
If the underlying hardware detects a voltage or clock glitch, the information can be used to prevent the glitch from being successful.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1247: Improper Protection Against Voltage and Clock Glitches (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1247.html 3/4(so that if the routine is bypassed, one can examine the artifacts and figure out that an attack must have happened). However , if
the attacker has the ability to bypass the critical authentication routine, they might also have the ability to bypass the other
protection routine that checks the artifacts. Basically , depending on these kind of protections is akin to resorting to "Security by
Obscurity".
Architecture or Design Review
Many SoCs come equipped with a built-in Dynamic V oltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS) that can control the voltage and
clocks via software alone. However , there have been demonstrated attacks (like Plundervolt and CLKSCREW) that target this
DVFS [ REF-1081 ] [REF-1082 ]. During the design and implementation phases, one needs to check if the interface to this power
management feature is available from unprivileged SW ( CWE-1256 ), which would make the attack very easy .
 Functional Areas
Power
Clock
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1367 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Physical Systems
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1061] Keith Bowman, James Tschanz, Chris Wilkerson, Shih-Lien Lu, Tanay Karnik, V ivek De and Shekhar Borkar . "Circuit
Techniques for Dynamic V ariation Tolerance". < https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1629911.1629915 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1062] Dan Ernst, Nam Sung Kim, Shidhartha Das, Sanjay Pant, Rajeev Rao, Toan Pham, Conrad Ziesler , David Blaauw ,
Todd Austin, Krisztian Flautner and Trevor Mudge. "Razor: A Low-Power Pipeline Based on Circuit-Level Timing Speculation".
.
[REF-1063] James Tschanz, Keith Bowman, Steve W alstra, Marty Agostinelli, Tanay Karnik and V ivek De. "T unable Replica
Circuits and Adaptive V oltage-Frequency Techniques for Dynamic V oltage, Temperature, and Aging V ariation Tolerance".
.
[REF-1064] Bilgiday Yuce, Nahid F . Ghalaty , Chinmay Deshpande, Conor Patrick, Leyla Nazhandali and Patrick Schaumont.
"FAME: Fault-attack Aware Microprocessor Extensions for Hardware Fault Detection and Software Fault Response".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1065] Keith A. Bowman, James W . Tschanz, Shih-Lien L. Lu, Paolo A. Aseron, Muhammad M. Khellah, Arijit Raychowdhury ,
Bibiche M. Geuskens, Carlos Tokunaga, Chris B. Wilkerson, Tanay Karnik and V ivek De. "A 45 nm Resilient Microprocessor Core
for Dynamic V ariation Tolerance". < https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5654663 >.
[REF-1066] Niek Timmers and Albert Spruyt. "Bypassing Secure Boot Using Fault Injection". < https://www .blackhat.com/docs/eu-
16/materials/eu-16-T immers-Bypassing-Secure-Boot-Using-Fault-Injection.pdf >.
[REF-1217] Ross Anderson. "Security Engineering". 14.6.2 Security Evolution, page 291. 2001.
.
[REF-1217] Ross Anderson. "Security Engineering". 15.5.3 Glitching, page 317. 2001.
.
[REF-1081] Kit Murdock, David Oswald, Flavio D Garcia, Jo V an Bulck, Frank Piessens and Daniel Gruss. "Plundervolt".
.
[REF-1082] Adrian Tang, Simha Sethumadhavan and Salvatore Stolfo. "CLKSCREW : Exposing the Perils of Security-Oblivious
Energy Management". < https://www .usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity17/sec17-tang.pdf >.
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1247: Improper Protection Against Voltage and Clock Glitches (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1247.html 4/4[REF-1285] Texas Instruments. "Physical Security Attacks Against Silicon Devices". 2022-01-31.
.
[REF-1286] Lennert W outers, Benedikt Gierlichs and Bart Preneel. "On The Susceptibility of Texas Instruments SimpleLink
Platform Microcontrollers to Non-Invasive Physical Attacks". 1.2 / 4. 2022-03-14. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2022/328.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-18 Parbati K. Manna Intel
Corporation
provided detection methods
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names