3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-261: Weak Encoding for Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/261.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-261: W eak Encoding for Password
Weakness ID: 261
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Obscuring a password with a trivial encoding does not protect the password.
 Extended Description
Password management issues occur when a password is stored in plaintext in an application's properties or configuration file. A
programmer can attempt to remedy the password management problem by obscuring the password with an encoding function, such
as base 64 encoding, but this ef fort does not adequately protect the password.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 522 Insuf ficiently Protected Credentials
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads a password from a properties file and uses the password to connect to a database.
This code will run successfully , but anyone with access to config.properties can read the value of password and easily determine that
the value has been base 64 encoded. If a devious employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system.
Example 2
The following code reads a password from the registry and uses the password to create a new network credential.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
Properties prop = new Properties();
prop.load(new FileInputStream("config.properties"));
String password = Base64.decode(prop.getProperty("password"));
DriverManager.getConnection(url, usr, password);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C# 3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-261: Weak Encoding for Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/261.html 2/3This code will run successfully , but anyone who has access to the registry key used to store the password can read the value of
password. If a devious employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system.
 Potential Mitigations
Passwords should be encrypted with keys that are at least 128 bits in length for adequate security .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
The "crypt" family of functions uses weak cryptographic algorithms and should be avoided. It may be present in some projects for
compatibility .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Password Management: W eak Cryptography
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More Specific Insecure Storage
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-55 Rainbow Table Password Cracking
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
...
string value = regKey.GetValue(passKey).ToString();
byte[] decVal = Convert.FromBase64String(value);
NetworkCredential netCred = newNetworkCredential(username,decVal.toString(),domain);
...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-261: Weak Encoding for Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/261.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names