3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-781: Improper Address Validation in IOCTL with METHOD\_NEITHER I/O Control Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/781.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-781: Improper Address V alidation in IOCTL with METHOD\_NEITHER I/O
Control Code
Weakness ID: 781
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product defines an IOCTL that uses METHOD\_NEITHER for I/O, but it does not validate or incorrectly validates the addresses
that are provided.
 Extended Description
When an IOCTL uses the METHOD\_NEITHER option for I/O control, it is the responsibility of the IOCTL to validate the addresses that
have been supplied to it. If validation is missing or incorrect, attackers can supply arbitrary memory addresses, leading to code
execution or a denial of service.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1285 Improper V alidation of Specified Index, Position, or Of fset in Input
CanFollow 782 Exposed IOCTL with Insuf ficient Access Control
CanPrecede 822 Untrusted Pointer Dereference
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Operating Systems
Windows NT (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
An attacker may be able to access memory that belongs to another process or user . If the attacker
can control the contents that the IOCTL writes, it may lead to code execution at high privilege levels.
At the least, a crash can occur .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-2373 Driver for file-sharing and messaging protocol allows attackers to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2009-0686 Anti-virus product does not validate addresses, allowing attackers to gain SYSTEM privileges.
CVE-2009-0824 DVD software allows attackers to cause a crash.
CVE-2008-5724 Personal firewall allows attackers to gain SYSTEM privileges.
CVE-2007-5756 chain: device driver for packet-capturing software allows access to an unintended IOCTL with resultant
array index error .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
If METHOD\_NEITHER is required for the IOCTL, then ensure that all user-space addresses are properly validated before they
are first accessed. The ProbeForRead and ProbeForW rite routines are available for this task. Also properly protect and manage
the user-supplied buf fers, since the I/O Manager does not do this when METHOD\_NEITHER is being used. See References.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-781: Improper Address Validation in IOCTL with METHOD\_NEITHER I/O Control Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/781.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
If possible, avoid using METHOD\_NEITHER in the IOCTL and select methods that ef fectively control the buf fer size, such as
METHOD\_BUFFERED, METHOD\_IN\_DIRECT , or METHOD\_OUT\_DIRECT .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If the IOCTL is part of a driver that is only intended to be accessed by trusted users, then use proper access control for the
associated device or device namespace. See References.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
Because IOCTL functionality is typically performing low-level actions and closely interacts with the operating system, this weakness
may only appear in code that is written in low-level languages.
Research Gap
While this type of issue has been known since 2006, it is probably still under-studied and under-reported. Most of the focus has been
on high-profile software and security products, but other kinds of system software also use drivers. Since exploitation requires the
development of custom code, it requires some skill to find this weakness.
Because exploitation typically requires local privileges, it might not be a priority for active attackers. However , remote exploitation
may be possible for software such as device drivers. Even when remote vectors are not available, it may be useful as the final
privilege-escalation step in multi-stage remote attacks against application-layer software, or as the primary attack by a local user on
a multi-user system.
 References
[REF-696] Ruben Santamarta. "Exploiting Common Flaws in Drivers". 2007-07-11. < http://reversemode.com/index.php?
option=com\_content&task=view&id=38&Itemid=1 >.
[REF-697] Yuriy Bulygin. "Remote and Local Exploitation of Network Drivers". 2007-08-01.
.
[REF-698] Anibal Sacco. "Windows driver vulnerabilities: the METHOD\_NEITHER odyssey". 2008-10. < http://www .net-
security .org/dl/insecure/INSECURE-Mag-18.pdf >.
[REF-699] Microsoft. "Buf fer Descriptions for I/O Control Codes". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-
hardware/drivers/kernel/buf fer-descriptions-for-i-o-control-codes >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-700] Microsoft. "Using Neither Buf fered Nor Direct I/O". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-
hardware/drivers/kernel/using-neither-buf fered-nor-direct-i-o >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-701] Microsoft. "Securing Device Objects". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/controlling-
device-access >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-702] Piotr Bania. "Exploiting Windows Device Drivers". < https://www .piotrbania.com/all/articles/ewdd.pdf >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-15
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
