3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-212: Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or Transfer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/212.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-212: Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or T ransfer
Weakness ID: 212
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores, transfers, or shares a resource that contains sensitive information, but it does not properly remove that
information before the product makes the resource available to unauthorized actors.
 Extended Description
Resources that may contain sensitive data include documents, packets, messages, databases, etc. While this data may be useful to
an individual user or small set of users who share the resource, it may need to be removed before the resource can be shared outside
of the trusted group. The process of removal is sometimes called cleansing or scrubbing.
For example, a product for editing documents might not remove sensitive data such as reviewer comments or the local pathname
where the document is stored. Or , a proxy might not remove an internal IP address from headers before making an outgoing request
to an Internet site.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
ParentOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
ParentOf 1258 Exposure of Sensitive System Information Due to Uncleared Debug Information
CanPrecede 201 Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Sent Data
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
MemberOf 452 Initialization and Cleanup Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Read Application Data
Sensitive data may be exposed to an unauthorized actor in another control sphere. This may have a
wide range of secondary consequences which will depend on what data is exposed. One possibility
is the exposure of system data allowing an attacker to craft a specific, more ef fective attack.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code either generates a public HTML user information page or a JSON response containing the same user information.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-212: Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or Transfer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/212.html 2/3The programmer is careful to not display the user's e-mail address when displaying the public HTML page. However , the e-mail
address is not removed from the JSON response, exposing the user's e-mail address.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-3733 Cryptography library does not clear heap memory before release
CVE-2005-0406 Some image editors modify a JPEG image, but the original EXIF thumbnail image is left intact within
the JPEG. (Also an interaction error).
CVE-2002-0704 NAT feature in firewall leaks internal IP addresses in ICMP error messages.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Clearly specify which information should be regarded as private or sensitive, and require that the product of fers functionality that
allows the user to cleanse the sensitive information from the resource before it is published or exported to other parties.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Use naming conventions and strong types to make it easier to spot when sensitive data is being used. When creating structures,
objects, or other complex entities, separate the sensitive and non-sensitive data as much as possible.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This makes it easier to spot places in the code where data is being used that is unencrypted.
Phase: Implementation
Avoid errors related to improper resource shutdown or release ( CWE-404 ), which may leave the sensitive data within the
resource if it is in an incomplete state.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
// API flag, output JSON if set
$json = $\_GET['json']
$username = $\_GET['user']
if(!$json)
{
$record = getUserRecord($username);
foreach($record as $fieldName => $fieldValue)
{
if($fieldName == "email\_address") {
// skip displaying user emails
continue;
}
else{
writeToHtmlPage($fieldName,$fieldValue);
}
}
}
else
{
$record = getUserRecord($username);
echo json\_encode($record);
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-212: Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or Transfer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/212.html 3/3MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This entry is intended to be dif ferent from resultant information leaks, including those that occur from improper buf fer initialization
and reuse, improper encryption, interaction errors, and multiple interpretation errors. This entry could be regarded as a privacy leak,
depending on the type of information that is leaked.
Relationship
There is a close association between CWE-226 and CWE-212 . The dif ference is partially that of perspective. CWE-226 is geared
towards the final stage of the resource lifecycle, in which the resource is deleted, eliminated, expired, or otherwise released for
reuse. Technically , this involves a transfer to a dif ferent control sphere, in which the original contents of the resource are no longer
relevant. CWE-212 , however , is intended for sensitive data in resources that are intentionally shared with others, so they are still
active. This distinction is useful from the perspective of the CWE research view ( CWE-1000 ).
Terminology
The terms "cleansing" and "scrubbing" have multiple uses within computing. In information security , these are used for the removal
of sensitive data, but they are also used for the modification of incoming/outgoing data so that it conforms to specifications.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Cross-Boundary Cleansing Infoleak
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-168 Windows ::DA TA Alternate Data Stream
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
