3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-805: Buffer Access with Incorrect Length V alue
Weakness ID: 805
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a sequential operation to read or write a buf fer, but it uses an incorrect length value that causes it to access memory
that is outside of the bounds of the buf fer.
 Extended Description
When the length value exceeds the size of the destination, a buf fer overflow could occur .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
ParentOf 806 Buffer Access Using Size of Source Buf fer
CanFollow 130 Improper Handling of Length Parameter Inconsistency
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Class: Assembly (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of a
program's implicit security policy . This can often be used to subvert any other security service.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
Buffer overflows generally lead to crashes. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are possible,
including putting the program into an infinite loop.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
tthtt\*h3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 2/6This function allocates a buf fer of 64 bytes to store the hostname under the assumption that the maximum length value of hostname is
64 bytes, however there is no guarantee that the hostname will not be larger than 64 bytes. If an attacker specifies an address which
resolves to a very large hostname, then the function may overwrite sensitive data or even relinquish control flow to the attacker .
Note that this example also contains an unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) that can lead to a NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
Example 2
In the following example, it is possible to request that memcpy move a much larger segment of memory than assumed:
If returnChunkSize() happens to encounter an error it will return -1. Notice that the return value is not checked before the memcpy
operation ( CWE-252 ), so -1 can be passed as the size argument to memcpy() ( CWE-805 ). Because memcpy() assumes that the
value is unsigned, it will be interpreted as MAXINT -1 (CWE-195 ), and therefore will copy far more memory than is likely available to
the destination buf fer (CWE-787 , CWE-788 ).
Example 3
In the following example, the source character string is copied to the dest character string using the method strncpy .
However , in the call to strncpy the source character string is used within the sizeof call to determine the number of characters to copy .
This will create a buf fer overflow as the size of the source character string is greater than the dest character string. The dest character
string should be used within the sizeof call to ensure that the correct number of characters are copied, as shown below .
Example 4
In this example, the method outputFilenameT oLog outputs a filename to a log file. The method arguments include a pointer to a
character string containing the file name and an integer for the number of characters in the string. The filename is copied to a buf fer
where the buf fer size is set to a maximum size for inputs to the log file. The method then calls another method to save the contents of
the buf fer to the log file.struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int returnChunkSize(void \*) {
/\* if chunk info is valid, return the size of usable memory,
\* else, return -1 to indicate an error
\*/
...
}
int main() {
...
memcpy(destBuf, srcBuf, (returnChunkSize(destBuf)-1));
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
char source[21] = "the character string";
char dest[12];
strncpy(dest, source, sizeof(source)-1);
...
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
char source[21] = "the character string";
char dest[12];
strncpy(dest, source, sizeof(dest)-1);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define LOG\_INPUT\_SIZE 40
// saves the file name to a log file
int outputFilenameToLog(char \*filename, int length) {
it3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 3/6However , in this case the string copy method, strncpy , mistakenly uses the length method argument to determine the number of
characters to copy rather than using the size of the local character string, buf. This can lead to a buf fer overflow if the number of
characters contained in character string pointed to by filename is larger then the number of characters allowed for the local character
string. The string copy method should use the buf character string within a sizeof call to ensure that only characters up to the size of
the buf array are copied to avoid a buf fer overflow , as shown below .
Example 5
Windows provides the MultiByteT oWideChar(), WideCharT oMultiByte(), UnicodeT oBytes(), and BytesT oUnicode() functions to convert
between arbitrary multibyte (usually ANSI) character strings and Unicode (wide character) strings. The size arguments to these
functions are specified in dif ferent units, (one in bytes, the other in characters) making their use prone to error .
In a multibyte character string, each character occupies a varying number of bytes, and therefore the size of such strings is most
easily specified as a total number of bytes. In Unicode, however , characters are always a fixed size, and string lengths are typically
given by the number of characters they contain. Mistakenly specifying the wrong units in a size argument can lead to a buf fer
overflow .
The following function takes a username specified as a multibyte string and a pointer to a structure for user information and populates
the structure with information about the specified user . Since Windows authentication uses Unicode for usernames, the username
argument is first converted from a multibyte string to a Unicode string.
This function incorrectly passes the size of unicodeUser in bytes instead of characters. The call to MultiByteT oWideChar() can
therefore write up to (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR) wide characters, or (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR)\*sizeof(WCHAR) bytes, to the
unicodeUser array , which has only (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR) bytes allocated.
If the username string contains more than UNLEN characters, the call to MultiByteT oWideChar() will overflow the buf fer unicodeUser .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2011-1959 Chain: large length value causes buf fer over-read ( CWE-126 )
CVE-2011-1848 Use of packet length field to make a calculation, then copy into a fixed-size buf fer
CVE-2011-0105 Chain: retrieval of length value from an uninitialized memory location
CVE-2011-0606 Crafted length value in document reader leads to buf fer overflow
CVE-2011-0651 SSL server overflow when the sum of multiple length fields exceeds a given value
CVE-2010-4156 Language interpreter API function doesn't validate length argument, leading to information exposure
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, many languages that perform their own memory management, such as Java and Perl, are not subject to buf fer
overflows. Other languages, such as Ada and C#, typically provide overflow protection, but the protection can be disabled by the
programmer .
Be wary that a language's interface to native code may still be subject to overflows, even if the language itself is theoretically
safe.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworksint success;
// buffer with size set to maximum size for input to log file
char buf[LOG\_INPUT\_SIZE];
// copy filename to buffer
strncpy(buf, filename, length);
// save to log file
success = saveToLogFile(buf);
return success;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
// copy filename to buffer
strncpy(buf, filename, sizeof(buf)-1);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void getUserInfo(char \*username, struct \_USER\_INFO\_2 info){
WCHAR unicodeUser[UNLEN+1];
MultiByteToWideChar(CP\_ACP, 0, username, -1, unicodeUser, sizeof(unicodeUser));
NetUserGetInfo(NULL, unicodeUser, 2, (LPBYTE \*)&info);
}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 4/6Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Examples include the Safe C String Library (SafeStr) by Messier and V iega [ REF-57 ], and the Strsafe.h library from Microsoft
[REF-56 ]. These libraries provide safer versions of overflow-prone string-handling functions.
Note: This is not a complete solution, since many buf fer overflows are not related to strings.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Consider adhering to the following rules when allocating and managing an application's memory:
Double check that the buf fer is as large as specified.
When using functions that accept a number of bytes to copy , such as strncpy(), be aware that if the destination buf fer
size is equal to the source buf fer size, it may not NULL-terminate the string.
Check buf fer boundaries if accessing the buf fer in a loop and make sure there is no danger of writing past the allocated
space.
If necessary , truncate all input strings to a reasonable length before passing them to the copy and concatenation
functions.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the product or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 5/6Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting out-of-bounds memory
operations. This can make it dif ficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an analysis
tool might report buf fer overflows that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run with
setuid or other special privileges.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Detection techniques for buf fer-related errors are more mature than for most other weakness types.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Without visibility into the code, black box methods may not be able to suf ficiently distinguish this weakness from others,
requiring manual methods to diagnose the underlying problem.
Manual Analysis
Manual analysis can be useful for finding this weakness, but it might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints. This becomes dif ficult for weaknesses that must be considered for all inputs, since the attack surface can be too
large.
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-805: Buﬀer Access with Incorrect Length Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/805.html 6/6Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C Imprecise Guarantee that library functions do not form invalid pointers
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-100 Overflow Buf fers
CAPEC-256 SOAP Array Overflow
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 6, "Why ACLs Are Important" Page 171. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-59] Arjan van de V en. "Limiting buf fer overflows with ExecShield". < https://archive.is/saAFo >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-741] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 12 - Buf fer Access with Incorrect Length V alue". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-03-11. < https://web.archive.org/web/20100316043717/http://blogs.sans.org:80/appsecstreetfighter/2010/03/11/top-25-
series-rank-12-buf fer-access-with-incorrect-length-value/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-57] Matt Messier and John V iega. "Safe C String Library v1.0.3". < http://www .gnu-darwin.org/www001/ports-1.5a-
CURRENT/devel/safestr/work/safestr-1.0.3/doc/safestr .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-56] Microsoft. "Using the Strsafe.h Functions". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/menurc/strsafe-ovw?
redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-01-15
(CWE 1.8, 2010-02-16)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications