3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1278: Missing Protection Against Hardware Reverse Engineering Using Integrated Circuit (IC) I…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1278.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1278: Missing Protection Against Hardware Reverse Engineering Using
Integrated Circuit (IC) Imaging T echniques
Weakness ID: 1278
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Information stored in hardware may be recovered by an attacker with the capability to capture and analyze images of the integrated
circuit using techniques such as scanning electron microscopy .
 Extended Description
The physical structure of a device, viewed at high enough magnification, can reveal the information stored inside. Typical steps in IC
reverse engineering involve removing the chip packaging (decapsulation) then using various imaging techniques ranging from high
resolution x-ray microscopy to invasive techniques involving removing IC layers and imaging each layer using a scanning electron
microscope.
The goal of such activities is to recover secret keys, unique device identifiers, and proprietary code and circuit designs embedded in
hardware that the attacker has been unsuccessful at accessing through other means. These secrets may be stored in non-volatile
memory or in the circuit netlist. Memory technologies such as masked ROM allow easier to extraction of secrets than One-time
Programmable (OTP) memory .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
A common goal of malicious actors who reverse engineer ICs is to produce and sell counterfeit
versions of the IC.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider an SoC design that embeds a secret key in read-only memory (ROM). The key is baked into the design logic and may not
be modified after fabrication causing the key to be identical for all devices. An attacker in possession of the IC can decapsulate andAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1278: Missing Protection Against Hardware Reverse Engineering Using Integrated Circuit (IC) I…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1278.html 2/2delayer the device. After imaging the layers, computer vision algorithms or manual inspection of the circuit features locate the ROM
and reveal the value of the key bits as encoded in the visible circuit structure of the ROM.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The cost of secret extraction via IC reverse engineering should outweigh the potential value of the secrets being extracted.
Threat model and value of secrets should be used to choose the technology used to safeguard those secrets. Examples include
IC camouflaging and obfuscation, tamper-proof packaging, active shielding, and physical tampering detection information
erasure.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1372 ICS Supply Chain: OT Counterfeit and Malicious Corruption
MemberOf 1377 ICS Engineering (Construction/Deployment): Inherent Predictability in Design
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements. It is more attack-oriented, so it
might be more suited for CAPEC.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-188 Reverse Engineering
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
 References
[REF-1092] Shahed E. Quadir , Junlin Chen, Domenic Forte, Navid Asadizanjani, Sina Shahbazmohamadi, Lei W ang, John
Chandy and Mark Tehranipoor . "A Survey on Chip to System Reverse Engineering".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1129] Christopher Tarnovsky . "Security Failures In Secure Devices". 2008-02-21.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-20
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Modifications
