3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1261: Improper Handling of Single Event Upsets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1261.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1261: Improper Handling of Single Event Upsets
Weakness ID: 1261
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The hardware logic does not ef fectively handle when single-event upsets (SEUs) occur .
 Extended Description
Technology trends such as CMOS-transistor down-sizing, use of new materials, and system-on-chip architectures continue to
increase the sensitivity of systems to soft errors. These errors are random, and their causes might be internal (e.g., interconnect
coupling) or external (e.g., cosmic radiation). These soft errors are not permanent in nature and cause temporary bit flips known as
single-event upsets (SEUs). SEUs are induced errors in circuits caused when charged particles lose energy by ionizing the medium
through which they pass, leaving behind a wake of electron-hole pairs that cause temporary failures. If these failures occur in security-
sensitive modules in a chip, it might compromise the security guarantees of the chip. For instance, these temporary failures could be
bit flips that change the privilege of a regular user to root.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1384 Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
PeerOf 1254 Incorrect Comparison Logic Granularity
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection
Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This is an example from [ REF-1089 ]. See the reference for full details of this issue.
Parity is error detecting but not error correcting.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1261: Improper Handling of Single Event Upsets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1261.html 2/2Example 2
In 2016, a security researcher , who was also a patient using a pacemaker , was on an airplane when a bit flip occurred in the
pacemaker , likely due to the higher prevalence of cosmic radiation at such heights. The pacemaker was designed to account for bit
flips and went into a default safe mode, which still forced the patient to go to a hospital to get it reset. The bit flip also inadvertently
enabled the researcher to access the crash file, perform reverse engineering, and detect a hard-coded key . [REF-1101 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Implement triple-modular redundancy around security-sensitive modules.
Phase: Architecture and Design
SEUs mostly af fect SRAMs. For SRAMs storing security-critical data, implement Error-Correcting-Codes (ECC) and Address
Interleaving.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1086] Fan W ang and V ishwani D. Agrawal. "Single Event Upset: An Embedded Tutorial".
.
[REF-1087] P . D. Bradley and E. Normand. "Single Event Upsets in Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1088] Melanie Berg, Kenneth LaBel and Jonathan Pellish. "Single Event Ef fects in FPGA Devices 2015-2016".
.
[REF-1089] Cisco. "Cisco 12000 Single Event Upset Failures Overview and W ork Around Summary".
.
[REF-1090] Cypress. "Dif ferent W ays to Mitigate Soft Errors in Asynchronous SRAMs - KBA90939".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1091] Ian Johnston. "Cosmic particles can change elections and cause plans to fall through the sky , scientists warn".
.
[REF-1101] Anders B. Wilhelmsen, Eivind S. Kristiansen and Marie Moe. "The Hard-coded Key to my Heart - Hacking a
Pacemaker Programmer". 2019-08-10. < https://anderbw .github.io/2019-08-10-DC27-Biohacking-pacemaker-programmer .pdf>.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
Due to single-event upsets, bits are flipped in memories. As a result, memory-parity checks fail, which results in restart and a temporary
denial of service of two to three minutes.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
Using error-correcting codes could have avoided the restart caused by SEUs.