3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-942: Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/942.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-942: Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains
Weakness ID: 942
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a cross-domain policy file that includes domains that should not be trusted.
 Extended Description
A cross-domain policy file ("crossdomain.xml" in Flash and "clientaccesspolicy .xml" in Silverlight) defines a list of domains from which
a server is allowed to make cross-domain requests. When making a cross-domain request, the Flash or Silverlight client will first look
for the policy file on the target server . If it is found, and the domain hosting the application is explicitly allowed to make requests, the
request is made.
Therefore, if a cross-domain policy file includes domains that should not be trusted, such as when using wildcards, then the
application could be attacked by these untrusted domains.
An overly permissive policy file allows many of the same attacks seen in Cross-Site Scripting ( CWE-79 ). Once the user has executed
a malicious Flash or Silverlight application, they are vulnerable to a variety of attacks. The attacker could transfer private information,
such as cookies that may include session information, from the victim's machine to the attacker . The attacker could send malicious
requests to a web site on behalf of the victim, which could be especially dangerous to the site if the victim has administrator privileges
to manage that site.
In many cases, the attack can be launched without the victim even being aware of it.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
ChildOf 863 Incorrect Authorization
CanPrecede 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Application Data;
Varies by Context
An attacker may be able to bypass the web browser's same-origin policy . An attacker can exploit the
weakness to manipulate or steal cookies, create requests that can be mistaken for those of a valid
user, compromise confidential information, or execute malicious code on the end user systems for a
variety of nefarious purposes. Other damaging attacks include the disclosure of end user files,
installation of Trojan horse programs, redirecting the user to some other page or site, running
ActiveX controls (under Microsoft Internet Explorer) from sites that a user perceives as trustworthy ,
and modifying presentation of content.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-942: Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/942.html 2/3These cross-domain policy files mean to allow Flash and Silverlight applications hosted on other domains to access its data:
Flash crossdomain.xml :
Silverlight clientaccesspolicy .xml :
These entries are far too permissive, allowing any Flash or Silverlight application to send requests. A malicious application hosted on
any other web site will be able to send requests on behalf of any user tricked into executing it.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2012-2292 Product has a Silverlight cross-domain policy that does not restrict access to another application, which
allows remote attackers to bypass the Same Origin Policy .
CVE-2014-2049 The default Flash Cross Domain policies in a product allows remote attackers to access user files.
CVE-2007-6243 Chain: Adobe Flash Player does not suf ficiently restrict the interpretation and usage of cross-domain
policy files, which makes it easier for remote attackers to conduct cross-domain and cross-site scripting
(XSS) attacks.
CVE-2008-4822 Chain: Adobe Flash Player and earlier does not properly interpret policy files, which allows remote
attackers to bypass a non-root domain policy .
CVE-2010-3636 Chain: Adobe Flash Player does not properly handle unspecified encodings during the parsing of a
cross-domain policy file, which allows remote web servers to bypass intended access restrictions via
unknown vectors.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Avoid using wildcards in the cross-domain policy file. Any domain matching the wildcard expression will be implicitly trusted, and
can perform two-way interaction with the target server .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
For Flash, modify crossdomain.xml to use meta-policy options such as 'master-only' or 'none' to reduce the possibility of an
attacker planting extraneous cross-domain policy files on a server .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
For Flash, modify crossdomain.xml to use meta-policy options such as 'master-only' or 'none' to reduce the possibility of an
attacker planting extraneous cross-domain policy files on a server .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High(bad code) Example Language: XML 




(bad code) Example Language: XML 
xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?











3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-942: Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/942.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-943] Apurva Udaykumar . "Setting a crossdomain.xml file for HTTP streaming". Adobe. 2012-11-19.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-944] Adobe. "Cross-domain policy for Flash movies". Adobe. < http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/142/tn\_14213.html >.
[REF-945] Microsoft Corporation. "HTTP Communication and Security with Silverlight". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/previous-versions/windows/silverlight/dotnet-windows-silverlight/cc838250(v=vs.95)?redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-946] Microsoft Corporation. "Network Security Access Restrictions in Silverlight". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/previous-versions/windows/silverlight/dotnet-windows-silverlight/cc645032(v=vs.95) >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-947] Dongseok Jang, Aishwarya V enkataraman, G. Michael Sawka and Hovav Shacham. "Analyzing the Crossdomain
Policies of Flash Applications". 2011-05. < http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~hovav/dist/crossdomain.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2014-06-05
(CWE 2.7, 2014-06-23)CWE Content Team MITRE
Created by MITRE with input from members of the CWE-Research mailing list.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
