3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-526: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in an Environment Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/526.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-526: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in an Environment V ariable
Weakness ID: 526
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an environment variable to store unencrypted sensitive information.
 Extended Description
Information stored in an environment variable can be accessible by other processes with the execution context, including child
processes that dependencies are executed in, or serverless functions in cloud environments. An environment variable's contents can
also be inserted into messages, headers, log files, or other outputs. Often these other dependencies have no need to use the
environment variable in question. A weakness that discloses environment variables could expose this information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
PeerOf 214 Invocation of Process Using V isible Sensitive Information
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-43691 CMS shows sensitive server-side information from environment variables when run in Debug mode.
CVE-2022-27195 Plugin for an automation server inserts environment variable contents into build XML files.
CVE-2022-25264 CI/CD tool logs environment variables related to passwords add Contribution to content history .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Encrypt information stored in the environment variable to protect it from being exposed to an unauthorized user . If encryption is
not feasible or is considered too expensive for the business use of the application, then consider using a properly protected
configuration file instead of an environment variable. It should be understood that unencrypted information in a config file is also
not guaranteed to be protected, but it is still a better choice, because it reduces attack surface related to weaknesses such as
CWE-214 . In some settings, vaults might be a feasible option for safer data transfer . Users should be notified of the business
choice made to not protect the sensitive information through encryption.
Phase: Implementation
If the environment variable is not necessary for the desired behavior , then remove it entirely , or clear it to an empty value.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-526: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in an Environment Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/526.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-1318] David Fiser , Alfredo Oliveira. "Analyzing the Hidden Danger of Environment V ariables for Keeping Secrets". 2022-08-
17. < https://www .trendmicro.com/en\_us/research/22/h/analyzing-hidden-danger-of-environment-variables-for-keeping-
secrets.html >. URL validated: 2023-01-26 .
[REF-1319] Nicolas Harraudeau. "Using environment variables is security-sensitive". 2021-04-28.
. URL validated: 2023-01-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-11 Drew Buttner MITRE
Suggested improvements to name, description, relationships, and mitigations
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
