3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/404.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release
Weakness ID: 404
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not release or incorrectly releases a resource before it is made available for re-use.
 Extended Description
When a resource is created or allocated, the developer is responsible for properly releasing the resource as well as accounting for all
potential paths of expiration or invalidation, such as a set period of time or revocation.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
ParentOf 299 Improper Check for Certificate Revocation
ParentOf 459 Incomplete Cleanup
ParentOf 763 Release of Invalid Pointer or Reference
ParentOf 772 Missing Release of Resource after Ef fective Lifetime
ParentOf 1266 Improper Scrubbing of Sensitive Data from Decommissioned Device
PeerOf 405 Asymmetric Resource Consumption (Amplification)
PeerOf 239 Failure to Handle Incomplete Element
CanPrecede 619 Dangling Database Cursor ('Cursor Injection')
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Varies by Context
Most unreleased resource issues result in general software reliability problems, but if an attacker can
intentionally trigger a resource leak, the attacker might be able to launch a denial of service attack by
depleting the resource pool.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
When a resource containing sensitive information is not correctly shutdown, it may expose the
sensitive data in a subsequent allocation.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following method never closes the new file handle. Given enough time, the Finalize() method for Buf ferReader should eventually
call Close(), but there is no guarantee as to how long this action will take. In fact, there is no guarantee that Finalize() will ever be
invoked. In a busy environment, the Operating System could use up all of the available file handles before the Close() function is
called.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/404.html 2/5The good code example simply adds an explicit call to the Close() function when the system is done using the file. Within a simple
example such as this the problem is easy to see and fix. In a real system, the problem may be considerably more obscure.
Example 2
This code attempts to open a connection to a database and catches any exceptions that may occur .
If an exception occurs after establishing the database connection and before the same connection closes, the pool of database
connections may become exhausted. If the number of available connections is exceeded, other users cannot access this resource,
effectively denying access to the application.
Example 3
Under normal conditions the following C# code executes a database query , processes the results returned by the database, and
closes the allocated SqlConnection object. But if an exception occurs while executing the SQL or processing the results, the
SqlConnection object is not closed. If this happens often enough, the database will run out of available cursors and not be able to
execute any more SQL queries.
Example 4
The following C function does not close the file handle it opens if an error occurs. If the process is long-lived, the process can run out
of file handles.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private void processFile(string fName)
{
BufferReader fil = new BufferReader(new FileReader(fName));
String line;
while ((line = fil.ReadLine()) != null)
{
processLine(line);
}
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
private void processFile(string fName)
{
BufferReader fil = new BufferReader(new FileReader(fName));
String line;
while ((line = fil.ReadLine()) != null)
{
processLine(line);
}
fil.Close();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
Connection con = DriverManager.getConnection(some\_connection\_string);
}
catch ( Exception e ) {
log( e );
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
...
SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection(connString);
SqlCommand cmd = new SqlCommand(queryString);
cmd.Connection = conn;
conn.Open();
SqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader();
HarvestResults(rdr);
conn.Connection.Close();
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int decodeFile(char\* fName) {
char buf[BUF\_SZ];
FILE\* f = fopen(fName, "r");
if (!f) {
printf("cannot open %s\n", fName);
return DECODE\_FAIL;
}
else {
while (fgets(buf, BUF\_SZ, f)) {
if(!hkChk (bf)){3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/404.html 3/5Example 5
In this example, the program does not use matching functions such as malloc/free, new/delete, and new[]/delete[] to
allocate/deallocate the resource.
Example 6
In this example, the program calls the delete[] function on non-heap memory .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1127 Does not shut down named pipe connections if malformed data is sent.
CVE-2001-0830 Sockets not properly closed when attacker repeatedly connects and disconnects from server .
CVE-2002-1372 Chain: Return values of file/socket operations are not checked ( CWE-252 ), allowing resultant
consumption of file descriptors ( CWE-772 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, languages such as Java, Ruby , and Lisp perform automatic garbage collection that releases memory for objects
that have been deallocated.
Phase: Implementation
It is good practice to be responsible for freeing all resources you allocate and to be consistent with how and where you free
memory in a function. If you allocate memory that you intend to free upon completion of the function, you must be sure to free
the memory at all exit points for that function including error conditions.
Phase: Implementation
Memory should be allocated/freed using matching functions such as malloc/free, new/delete, and new[]/delete[].
Phase: Implementation
When releasing a complex object or structure, ensure that you properly dispose of all of its member components, not just the
object itself.
 Weakness Ordinalitiesif (!checkChecksum(buf)) {
return DECODE\_FAIL;
}
else {
decodeBlock(buf);
}
}
}
fclose(f);
return DECODE\_SUCCESS;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class A {
void foo();
};
void A::foo(){
int \*ptr;
ptr = (int\*)malloc(sizeof(int));
delete ptr;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class A{
void foo(bool);
};
void A::foo(bool heap) {
int localArray[2] = {
11,22
};
int \*p = localArray;
if (heap){
p = new int[2];
}
delete[] p;
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/404.html 4/5Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
Improper release or shutdown of resources can be primary to resource exhaustion, performance, and information
confidentiality problems to name a few .
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
Improper release or shutdown of resources can be resultant from improper error handling or insuf ficient resource
tracking.
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Resource clean up errors might be detected with a stress-test by calling the software simultaneously from a large number of
threads or processes, and look for evidence of any unexpected behavior . The software's operation may slow down, but it should
not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the product under
low memory conditions, run with insuf ficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable
connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior . If you trigger an
unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate
unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 882 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 14 - Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 982 SFP Secondary Cluster: Failure to Release Resource
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1309 CISQ Quality Measures - Ef ficiency
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-404: Improper Resource Shutdown or Release (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/404.html 5/5Relationship
Overlaps memory leaks, asymmetric resource consumption, malformed input errors.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Improper resource shutdown or release
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Unreleased Resource
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
CER T C Secure Coding FIO42-C CWE More
AbstractClose files when they are no longer needed
CER T C Secure Coding MEM31-C CWE More
AbstractFree dynamically allocated memory when no longer
needed
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO04-J Release resources when they are no longer needed
Software Fault Patterns SFP14 Failure to release resource
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-125 Flooding
CAPEC-130 Excessive Allocation
CAPEC-131 Resource Leak Exposure
CAPEC-494 TCP Fragmentation
CAPEC-495 UDP Fragmentation
CAPEC-496 ICMP Fragmentation
CAPEC-666 BlueSmacking
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 8: C++ Catastrophes."
Page 143. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications