3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-337: Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/337.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-337: Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
Weakness ID: 337
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) is initialized from a predictable seed, such as the process ID or system time.
 Extended Description
The use of predictable seeds significantly reduces the number of possible seeds that an attacker would need to test in order to predict
which random numbers will be generated by the PRNG.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Both of these examples use a statistical PRNG seeded with the current value of the system clock to generate a random number:
An attacker can easily predict the seed used by these PRNGs, and so also predict the stream of random numbers generated. Note
these examples also exhibit CWE-338 (Use of Cryptographically W eak PRNG).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-7010 Cloud application on Kubernetes generates passwords using a weak random number generator based
on deployment time.
CVE-2019-11495 server uses erlang:now() to seed the PRNG, which results in a small search space for potential random
seeds
CVE-2008-0166 The removal of a couple lines of code caused Debian's OpenSSL Package to only use the current
process ID for seeding a PRNG
CVE-2016-10180 Router's PIN generation is based on rand(time(0)) seeding.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Random random = new Random(System.currentTimeMillis());
int accountID = random.nextInt();
(bad code) Example Language: C 
srand(time());
int randNum = rand();3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-337: Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/337.html 2/2CVE-2018-9057 cloud provider product uses a non-cryptographically secure PRNG and seeds it with the current time
 Potential Mitigations
Use non-predictable inputs for seed generation.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems, or use the more recent
FIPS 140-3 [ REF-1192 ] if possible.
Phase: Implementation
Use a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware devices with high entropy .
However , do not re-seed too frequently , or else the entropy source might block.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Predictable Seed in PRNG
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". Annex C, Approved Random Number Generators. 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1192] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-3: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2019-03-22. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/3/final >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
