3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-301: Reﬂection Attack in an Authentication Protocol (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/301.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-301: Reflection Attack in an Authentication Protocol
Weakness ID: 301
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Simple authentication protocols are subject to reflection attacks if a malicious user can use the target machine to impersonate a
trusted user .
 Extended Description
A mutual authentication protocol requires each party to respond to a random challenge by the other party by encrypting it with a pre-
shared key . Often, however , such protocols employ the same pre-shared key for communication with a number of dif ferent entities. A
malicious user or an attacker can easily compromise this protocol without possessing the correct key by employing a reflection attack
on the protocol.
Reflection attacks capitalize on mutual authentication schemes in order to trick the target into revealing the secret shared between it
and another valid user . In a basic mutual-authentication scheme, a secret is known to both the valid user and the server; this allows
them to authenticate. In order that they may verify this shared secret without sending it plainly over the wire, they utilize a Dif fie-
Hellman-style scheme in which they each pick a value, then request the hash of that value as keyed by the shared secret. In a
reflection attack, the attacker claims to be a valid user and requests the hash of a random value from the server . When the server
returns this value and requests its own value to be hashed, the attacker opens another connection to the server . This time, the hash
requested by the attacker is the value which the server requested in the first connection. When the server returns this hashed value, it
is used in the first connection, authenticating the attacker successfully as the impersonated valid user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
PeerOf 327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
The primary result of reflection attacks is successful authentication with a target machine -- as an
impersonated user .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-301: Reﬂection Attack in an Authentication Protocol (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/301.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-3435 product authentication succeeds if user-provided MD5 hash matches the hash in its database; this can
be subjected to replay attacks.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use dif ferent keys for the initiator and responder or of a dif ferent type of challenge for the initiator and responder .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Let the initiator prove its identity before proceeding.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 718 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A7 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 956 SFP Secondary Cluster: Channel Attack
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The term "reflection" is used in multiple ways within CWE and the community , so its usage should be reviewed.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Reflection attack in an auth protocol
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A7 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-90 Reflection Attack in Authentication Protocol
unsigned char \*simple\_digest(char \*alg,char \*buf,unsigned int len, int \*olen) {
const EVP\_MD \*m;
EVP\_MD\_CTX ctx;
unsigned char \*ret;
OpenSSL\_add\_all\_digests();
if (!(m = EVP\_get\_digestbyname(alg))) return NULL;
if (!(ret = (unsigned char\*)malloc(EVP\_MAX\_MD\_SIZE))) return NULL;
EVP\_DigestInit(&ctx, m);
EVP\_DigestUpdate(&ctx,buf,len);
EVP\_DigestFinal(&ctx,ret,olen);
return ret;
}
unsigned char \*generate\_password\_and\_cmd(char \*password\_and\_cmd) {
simple\_digest("sha1",password,strlen(password\_and\_cmd)
...
);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String command = new String("some cmd to execute & the password") MessageDigest encer = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
encer.update(command.getBytes("UTF-8"));
byte[] digest = encer.digest();3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-301: Reﬂection Attack in an Authentication Protocol (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/301.html 3/3
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Insuf ficient
Validation", Page 38. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications