3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-453: Insecure Default Variable Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/453.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-453: Insecure Default V ariable Initialization
Weakness ID: 453
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, by default, initializes an internal variable with an insecure or less secure value than is possible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1188 Initialization of a Resource with an Insecure Default
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could gain access to and modify sensitive data or system information.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code attempts to login a user using credentials from a POST request:
Because the $authorized variable is never initialized, PHP will automatically set $authorized to any value included in the POST
request if register\_globals is enabled. An attacker can send a POST request with an unexpected third value 'authorized' set to 'true'
and gain authorized status without supplying valid credentials.
Here is a fixed version:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
// $user and $pass automatically set from POST request
if (login\_user($user,$pass)) {
$authorized = true;
}
...
if ($authorized) {
generatePage();
}
(good code) Example Language: PHP 
$user = $\_POST['user'];
$pass = $\_POST['pass'];
$authorized = false;
if (login\_user($user,$pass)) {
$authorized = true;
}3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-453: Insecure Default Variable Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/453.html 2/2This code avoids the issue by initializing the $authorized variable to false and explicitly retrieving the login credentials from the
$\_POST variable. Regardless, register\_globals should never be enabled and is disabled by default in current versions of PHP .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-36349 insecure default variable initialization in BIOS firmware for a hardware board allows DoS
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Disable or change default settings when they can be used to abuse the system. Since those default settings are shipped with
the product they are likely to be known by a potential attacker who is familiar with the product. For instance, default credentials
should be changed or the associated accounts should be disabled.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 966 SFP Secondary Cluster: Other Exposures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This overlaps other categories, probably should be split into separate items.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Insecure default variable initialization
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
}
...