3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-626: Null Byte Interaction Error (Poison Null Byte) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/626.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-626: Null Byte Interaction Error (Poison Null Byte)
Weakness ID: 626
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle null bytes or NUL characters when passing data between dif ferent representations or
components.
 Extended Description
A null byte (NUL character) can have dif ferent meanings across representations or languages. For example, it is a string terminator in
standard C libraries, but Perl and PHP strings do not treat it as a terminator . When two representations are crossed - such as when
Perl or PHP invokes underlying C functionality - this can produce an interaction error with unexpected results. Similar issues have
been reported for ASP. Other interpreters written in C might also be af fected.
The poison null byte is frequently useful in path traversal attacks by terminating hard-coded extensions that are added to a filename. It
can play a role in regular expression processing in PHP .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
ChildOf 147 Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
ASP.NET (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-4155 NUL byte bypasses PHP regular expression check
CVE-2005-3153 inserting SQL after a NUL byte bypasses allowlist regexp, enabling SQL injection
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Remove null bytes from all incoming strings.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-626: Null Byte Interaction Error (Poison Null Byte) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/626.html 2/2MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Current usage of "poison null byte" is typically related to this C/Perl/PHP interaction error , but the original term in 1998 was applied
to an of f-by-one buf fer overflow involving a null byte.
Research Gap
There are not many CVE examples, because the poison NULL byte is a design limitation, which typically is not included in CVE by
itself. It is typically used as a facilitator manipulation to widen the scope of potential attacks against other vulnerabilities.
 References
[REF-514] Rain Forest Puppy . "Poison NULL byte". Phrack 55. < https://insecure.org/news/P55-07.txt >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-515] Brett Moore. "0x00 vs ASP file upload scripts". < http://www .security-
assessment.com/Whitepapers/0x00\_vs\_ASP\_File\_Uploads.pdf >.
[REF-516] ShAnKaR. "ShAnKaR: multiple PHP application poison NULL byte vulnerability".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
