3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-772: Missing Release of Resource after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/772.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-772: Missing Release of Resource after Effective Lifetime
Weakness ID: 772
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not release a resource after its ef fective lifetime has ended, i.e., after the resource is no longer needed.
 Extended Description
When a resource is not released after use, it can allow attackers to cause a denial of service by causing the allocation of resources
without triggering their release. Frequently-af fected resources include memory , CPU, disk space, power or battery , etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 404 Improper Resource Shutdown or Release
ParentOf 401 Missing Release of Memory after Ef fective Lifetime
ParentOf 775 Missing Release of File Descriptor or Handle after Ef fective Lifetime
ParentOf 1091 Use of Object without Invoking Destructor Method
CanFollow 911 Improper Update of Reference Count
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
An attacker that can influence the allocation of resources that are not properly released could deplete
the available resource pool and prevent all other processes from accessing the same type of resource.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following method never closes the new file handle. Given enough time, the Finalize() method for Buf ferReader should eventually
call Close(), but there is no guarantee as to how long this action will take. In fact, there is no guarantee that Finalize() will ever be
invoked. In a busy environment, the Operating System could use up all of the available file handles before the Close() function is
called.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private void processFile(string fName)
{
BffRdfil BffRd( FilRd(fN ))3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-772: Missing Release of Resource after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/772.html 2/4The good code example simply adds an explicit call to the Close() function when the system is done using the file. Within a simple
example such as this the problem is easy to see and fix. In a real system, the problem may be considerably more obscure.
Example 2
The following code attempts to open a new connection to a database, process the results returned by the database, and close the
allocated SqlConnection object.
The problem with the above code is that if an exception occurs while executing the SQL or processing the results, the SqlConnection
object is not closed. If this happens often enough, the database will run out of available cursors and not be able to execute any more
SQL queries.
Example 3
This code attempts to open a connection to a database and catches any exceptions that may occur .
If an exception occurs after establishing the database connection and before the same connection closes, the pool of database
connections may become exhausted. If the number of available connections is exceeded, other users cannot access this resource,
effectively denying access to the application.
Example 4
Under normal conditions the following C# code executes a database query , processes the results returned by the database, and
closes the allocated SqlConnection object. But if an exception occurs while executing the SQL or processing the results, the
SqlConnection object is not closed. If this happens often enough, the database will run out of available cursors and not be able to
execute any more SQL queries.
Example 5BufferReader fil = new BufferReader(new FileReader(fName));
String line;
while ((line = fil.ReadLine()) != null)
{
processLine(line);
}
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
private void processFile(string fName)
{
BufferReader fil = new BufferReader(new FileReader(fName));
String line;
while ((line = fil.ReadLine()) != null)
{
processLine(line);
}
fil.Close();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection(connString);
SqlCommand cmd = new SqlCommand(queryString);
cmd.Connection = conn;
conn.Open();
SqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader();
HarvestResults(rdr);
conn.Connection.Close();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
Connection con = DriverManager.getConnection(some\_connection\_string);
}
catch ( Exception e ) {
log( e );
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
...
SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection(connString);
SqlCommand cmd = new SqlCommand(queryString);
cmd.Connection = conn;
conn.Open();
SqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader();
HarvestResults(rdr);
conn.Connection.Close();
...3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-772: Missing Release of Resource after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/772.html 3/4The following C function does not close the file handle it opens if an error occurs. If the process is long-lived, the process can run out
of file handles.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0897 Chain: anti-virus product encounters a malformed file but returns from a function without closing a file
descriptor ( CWE-775 ) leading to file descriptor consumption ( CWE-400 ) and failed scans.
CVE-2001-0830 Sockets not properly closed when attacker repeatedly connects and disconnects from server .
CVE-1999-1127 Does not shut down named pipe connections if malformed data is sent.
CVE-2009-2858 Chain: memory leak ( CWE-404 ) leads to resource exhaustion.
CVE-2009-2054 Product allows exhaustion of file descriptors when processing a large number of TCP packets.
CVE-2008-2122 Port scan triggers CPU consumption with processes that attempt to read data from closed sockets.
CVE-2007-4103 Product allows resource exhaustion via a large number of calls that do not complete a 3-way
handshake.
CVE-2002-1372 Chain: Return values of file/socket operations are not checked ( CWE-252 ), allowing resultant
consumption of file descriptors ( CWE-772 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, languages such as Java, Ruby , and Lisp perform automatic garbage collection that releases memory for objects
that have been deallocated.
Phase: Implementation
It is good practice to be responsible for freeing all resources you allocate and to be consistent with how and where you free
resources in a function. If you allocate resources that you intend to free upon completion of the function, you must be sure to
free the resources at all exit points for that function including error conditions.
Phases: Operation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Resource Limitation
Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system
resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many
resources are available. However , these functions are not available on all operating systems.
When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770 ), then limit the allocation of
further resources to privileged users; alternately , begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may
protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users.
Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable
(CWE-703 ).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 882 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 14 - Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 982 SFP Secondary Cluster: Failure to Release Resource
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int decodeFile(char\* fName) {
char buf[BUF\_SZ];
FILE\* f = fopen(fName, "r");
if (!f) {
printf("cannot open %s\n", fName);
return DECODE\_FAIL;
}
else {
while (fgets(buf, BUF\_SZ, f)) {
if (!checkChecksum(buf)) {
return DECODE\_FAIL;
}
else {
decodeBlock(buf);
}
}
}
fclose(f);
return DECODE\_SUCCESS;
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-772: Missing Release of Resource after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/772.html 4/4MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
Vulnerability theory is largely about how behaviors and resources interact. "Resource exhaustion" can be regarded as either a
consequence or an attack, depending on the perspective. This entry is an attempt to reflect one of the underlying weaknesses that
enable these attacks (or consequences) to take place.
Maintenance
"Resource exhaustion" ( CWE-400 ) is currently treated as a weakness, although it is more like a category of weaknesses that all
have the same type of consequence. While this entry treats CWE-400 as a parent in view 1000, the relationship is probably more
appropriately described as a chain.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding FIO42-C CWE More
AbstractClose files when they are no longer needed
CER T C Secure Coding MEM31-C CWE More
AbstractFree dynamically allocated memory when no longer
needed
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-772
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-772
Software Fault Patterns SFP14 Failure to Release Resource
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-469 HTTP DoS
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-772.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-772. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-13
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
