3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-431: Missing Handler (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/431.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-431: Missing Handler
Weakness ID: 431
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A handler is not available or implemented.
 Extended Description
When an exception is thrown and not caught, the process has given up an opportunity to decide if a given failure or event is worth a
change in execution.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
CanPrecede 433 Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 429 Handler Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
If a Servlet does not catch all exceptions, it may reveal debugging information that will help an adversary form a plan of attack. In the
following method a DNS lookup failure will cause the Servlet to throw an exception.
When a Servlet throws an exception, the default error response the Servlet container sends back to the user typically includes
debugging information. This information is of great value to an attacker .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-25302 SDK for OPC Unified Architecture (OPC UA) is missing a handler for when a cast fails, allowing for a
crash
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
protected void doPost (HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
String ip = req.getRemoteAddr();
InetAddress addr = InetAddress.getByName(ip);
...
out.println("hello " + addr.getHostName());
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-431: Missing Handler (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/431.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Handle all possible situations (e.g. error condition).
Phase: Implementation
If an operation can throw an Exception, implement a handler for that specific exception.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Missing Handler
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "File Handlers",
Page 74. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
