3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-353: Missing Support for Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/353.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-353: Missing Support for Integrity Check
Weakness ID: 353
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a transmission protocol that does not include a mechanism for verifying the integrity of the data during transmission,
such as a checksum.
 Extended Description
If integrity check values or "checksums" are omitted from a protocol, there is no way of determining if data has been corrupted in
transmission. The lack of checksum functionality in a protocol removes the first application-level check of data that can be used. The
end-to-end philosophy of checks states that integrity checks should be performed at the lowest level that they can be completely
implemented. Excluding further sanity checks and input validation performed by applications, the protocol's checksum is the most
important level of checksum, since it can be performed more completely than at any previous level and takes into account entire
messages, as opposed to single packets.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
PeerOf 354 Improper V alidation of Integrity Check V alue
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Data that is parsed and used may be corrupted.
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Other
Without a checksum it is impossible to determine if any changes have been made to the data after
it was sent.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a request packet is received, and privileged information is sent to the requester:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
while(true) {
Dt Pkt Dt Pkt(DtDtlth)3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-353: Missing Support for Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/353.html 2/3The response containing secret data has no integrity check associated with it, allowing an attacker to alter the message without
detection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Add an appropriately sized checksum to the protocol, ensuring that data received may be simply validated before it is parsed
and used.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the checksums present in the protocol design are properly implemented and added to each message before it is
sent.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 957 SFP Secondary Cluster: Protocol Error
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to add integrity check value
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.03 RE(1)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .04.02 RE(1)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .11.06 RE(2)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 3.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.1
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-13 Subverting Environment V ariable V alues
CAPEC-14 Client-side Injection-induced Buf fer Overflow
CAPEC-389 Content Spoofing V ia Application API Manipulation
CAPEC-39 Manipulating Opaque Client-based Data Tokens
CAPEC-665 Exploitation of Thunderbolt Protection Flaws
CAPEC-74 Manipulating State
CAPEC-75 Manipulating W riteable Configuration Files
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 15: Not Updating Easily ."
Page 231. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
DatagramPacket rp = new DatagramPacket(rData,rData.length);
outSock.receive(rp);
InetAddress IPAddress = rp.getAddress();
int port = rp.getPort();
out = secret.getBytes();
DatagramPacket sp =new DatagramPacket(out, out.length, IPAddress, port);
outSock.send(sp);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-353: Missing Support for Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/353.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names