3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data
Weakness ID: 311
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not encrypt sensitive or critical information before storage or transmission.
 Extended Description
The lack of proper data encryption passes up the guarantees of confidentiality , integrity , and accountability that properly implemented
encryption conveys.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
ParentOf 319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
PeerOf 327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
If the application does not use a secure channel, such as SSL, to exchange sensitive information, it
is possible for an attacker with access to the network traf fic to snif f packets from the connection and
uncover the data. This attack is not technically dif ficult, but does require physical access to some
portion of the network over which the sensitive data travels. This access is usually somewhere near
where the user is connected to the network (such as a colleague on the company network) but can
be anywhere along the path from the user to the end server .
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
Omitting the use of encryption in any program which transfers data over a network of any kind should
be considered on par with delivering the data sent to each user on the local networks of both the
sender and receiver . Worse, this omission allows for the injection of data into a stream of
communication between two parties -- with no means for the victims to separate valid data from
invalid. In this day of widespread network attacks and password collection snif fers, it is an
unnecessary risk to omit encryption from the design of any system which might benefit from it.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code writes a user's login information to a cookie so the user does not have to login again later .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 2/6The code stores the user's username and password in plaintext in a cookie on the user's machine. This exposes the user's login
information if their computer is compromised by an attacker . Even if the user's machine is not compromised, this weakness combined
with cross-site scripting ( CWE-79 ) could allow an attacker to remotely copy the cookie.
Also note this example code also exhibits Plaintext Storage in a Cookie ( CWE-315 ).
Example 2
The following code attempts to establish a connection, read in a password, then store it to a buf fer.
While successful, the program does not encrypt the data before writing it to a buf fer, possibly exposing it to unauthorized actors.
Example 3
The following code attempts to establish a connection to a site to communicate sensitive information.
Though a connection is successfully made, the connection is unencrypted and it is possible that all sensitive data sent to or received
from the server will be read by unintended actors.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-2272 password and username stored in cleartext in a cookie
CVE-2009-1466 password stored in cleartext in a file with insecure permissions
CVE-2009-0152 chat program disables SSL in some circumstances even when the user says to use SSL.
CVE-2009-1603 Chain: product uses an incorrect public exponent when generating an RSA key, which ef fectively
disables the encryption
CVE-2009-0964 storage of unencrypted passwords in a database
CVE-2008-6157 storage of unencrypted passwords in a database
CVE-2008-6828 product stores a password in cleartext in memory
CVE-2008-1567 storage of a secret key in cleartext in a temporary file
CVE-2008-0174 SCADA product uses HTTP Basic Authentication, which is not encrypted
CVE-2007-5778 login credentials stored unencrypted in a registry key
CVE-2002-1949 Passwords transmitted in cleartext.
CVE-2008-4122 Chain: Use of HTTPS cookie without "secure" flag causes it to be transmitted across unencrypted
HTTP .
CVE-2008-3289 Product sends password hash in cleartext in violation of intended policy .
CVE-2008-4390 Remote management feature sends sensitive information including passwords in cleartext.
CVE-2007-5626 Backup routine sends password in cleartext in email.
CVE-2004-1852 Product transmits Blowfish encryption key in cleartext.
CVE-2008-0374 Printer sends configuration information, including administrative password, in cleartext.
CVE-2007-4961 Chain: cleartext transmission of the MD5 hash of password enables attacks against a server that is
susceptible to replay ( CWE-294 ).(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function persistLogin($username, $password){
$data = array("username" => $username, "password"=> $password);
setcookie ("userdata", $data);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
server.sin\_family = AF\_INET; hp = gethostbyname(argv[1]);
if (hp==NULL) error("Unknown host");
memcpy( (char \*)&server.sin\_addr,(char \*)hp->h\_addr,hp->h\_length);
if (argc < 3) port = 80;
else port = (unsigned short)atoi(argv[3]);
server.sin\_port = htons(port);
if (connect(sock, (struct sockaddr \*)&server, sizeof server) < 0) error("Connecting");
...
while ((n=read(sock,buffer,BUFSIZE-1))!=-1) {
write(dfd,password\_buffer,n);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
URL u = new URL("http://www.secret.example.org/");
HttpURLConnection hu = (HttpURLConnection) u.openConnection();
hu.setRequestMethod("PUT");
hu.connect();
OutputStream os = hu.getOutputStream();
hu.disconnect();
}
catch (IOException e) {
//...
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 3/6CVE-2007-4786 Product sends passwords in cleartext to a log server .
CVE-2005-3140 Product sends file with cleartext passwords in e-mail message intended for diagnostic purposes.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Clearly specify which data or resources are valuable enough that they should be protected by encryption. Require that any
transmission or storage of this data/resource should use well-vetted encryption algorithms.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that encryption is properly integrated into the system design, including but not necessarily limited to:
Encryption that is needed to store or transmit private data of the users of the system
Encryption that is needed to protect the system itself from unauthorized disclosure or tampering
Identify the separate needs and contexts for encryption:
One-way (i.e., only the user or recipient needs to have the key). This can be achieved using public key cryptography , or
other techniques in which the encrypting party (i.e., the product) does not need to have access to a private key .
Two-way (i.e., the encryption can be automatically performed on behalf of a user , but the key must be available so that
the plaintext can be automatically recoverable by that user). This requires storage of the private key in a format that is
recoverable only by the user (or perhaps by the operating system) in a way that cannot be recovered by others.
Using threat modeling or other techniques, assume that data can be compromised through a separate vulnerability or weakness,
and determine where encryption will be most ef fective. Ensure that data that should be private is not being inadvertently
exposed using weaknesses such as insecure permissions ( CWE-732 ). [REF-7 ]
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
When there is a need to store or transmit sensitive data, use strong, up-to-date cryptographic algorithms to encrypt that data.
Select a well-vetted algorithm that is currently considered to be strong by experts in the field, and use well-tested
implementations. As with all cryptographic mechanisms, the source code should be available for analysis.
For example, US government systems require FIPS 140-2 certification.
Do not develop custom or private cryptographic algorithms. They will likely be exposed to attacks that are well-understood by
cryptographers. Reverse engineering techniques are mature. If the algorithm can be compromised if attackers find out how it
works, then it is especially weak.
Periodically ensure that the cryptography has not become obsolete. Some older algorithms, once thought to require a billion
years of computing time, can now be broken in days or hours. This includes MD4, MD5, SHA1, DES, and other algorithms that
were once regarded as strong. [ REF-267 ]
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
When using industry-approved techniques, use them correctly . Don't cut corners by skipping resource-intensive steps ( CWE-
325). These steps are often essential for preventing common attacks.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Use naming conventions and strong types to make it easier to spot when sensitive data is being used. When creating structures,
objects, or other complex entities, separate the sensitive and non-sensitive data as much as possible.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This makes it easier to spot places in the code where data is being used that is unencrypted.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
The characterizaton of sensitive data often requires domain-specific understanding, so manual methods are useful. However ,
manual ef forts might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time constraints. Black box methods may produce
artifacts (e.g. stored data or unencrypted network transfer) that require manual evaluation.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Analysis
Automated measurement of the entropy of an input/output source may indicate the use or lack of encryption, but human analysis
is still required to distinguish intentionally-unencrypted data (e.g. metadata) from sensitive data.3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 4/6Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Network Snif fer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Automated Monitored Execution
Man-in-the-middle attack tool
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 719 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A8 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 720 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A9 - Insecure Communications
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 816 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A7 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 818 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A9 - Insuf ficient Transport Layer Protection
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 5/6MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 930 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A2 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 934 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A6 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
CWE-311 is high-level with more precise children available. It is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar).
Comments:
Consider children CWE-312 : Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information or CWE-319 : Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive
Information.
 Notes
Relationship
There is an overlapping relationship between insecure storage of sensitive information ( CWE-922 ) and missing encryption of
sensitive information ( CWE-311 ). Encryption is often used to prevent an attacker from reading the sensitive data. However ,
encryption does not prevent the attacker from erasing or overwriting the data.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to encrypt data
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A8 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Cryptographic Storage
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A9 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Communications
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Storage
WASC 4 Insuf ficient Transport Layer Protection
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC00-J Use SSLSocket rather than Socket for secure data
exchange
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 4.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.5
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-157 Sniffing Attacks
CAPEC-158 Sniffing Network Traffic
CAPEC-204 Lifting Sensitive Data Embedded in Cache
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
CAPEC-383 Harvesting Information via API Event Monitoring
CAPEC-384 Application API Message Manipulation via Man-in-the-Middle
CAPEC-385 Transaction or Event Tampering via Application API Manipulation
CAPEC-386 Application API Navigation Remapping
CAPEC-387 Navigation Remapping To Propagate Malicious Content
CAPEC-388 Application API Button Hijacking
CAPEC-477 Signature Spoofing by Mixing Signed and Unsigned Content
CAPEC-609 Cellular Traffic Intercept
CAPEC-65 Sniff Application Code
 References
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/311.html 6/6[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "Protecting Secret Data" Page 299. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 17: Failure to Protect
Stored Data." Page 253. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-265] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 10 - Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-
02-26. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-10-missing-encryption-of-sensitive-data/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Encryption", Page 43. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names