3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-33: Path Traversal: '....' (Multiple Dot) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/33.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-33: Path T raversal: '....' (Multiple Dot)
Weakness ID: 33
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory , but it does not properly neutralize
'....' (multiple dot) sequences that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory .
 Extended Description
This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory .
The '....' manipulation is useful for bypassing some path traversal protection schemes. On some Windows systems, it is equivalent to
"..\..\.." and might bypass checks that assume only two dots are valid. Incomplete filtering, such as removal of "./" sequences, can
ultimately produce valid ".." sequences due to a collapse into unsafe value ( CWE-182 ).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 23 Relative Path Traversal
CanFollow 182 Collapse of Data into Unsafe V alue
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-0240 read files via "/........../" in URL
CVE-2000-0773 read files via "...." in web server
CVE-1999-1082 read files via "......" in web server (doubled triple dot?)
CVE-2004-2121 read files via "......" in web server (doubled triple dot?)
CVE-2001-0491 multiple attacks using "..", "...", and "...." in dif ferent commands
CVE-2001-0615 "..." or "...." in chat server
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-33: Path Traversal: '....' (Multiple Dot) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/33.html 2/2denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
Like the triple-dot CWE-32 , this manipulation probably hides multiple weaknesses that should be made more explicit.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER '....' (multiple dot)
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
