3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-433: Unparsed Raw Web Content Delivery (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/433.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-433: Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
Weakness ID: 433
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores raw content or supporting code under the web document root with an extension that is not specifically handled by
the server .
 Extended Description
If code is stored in a file with an extension such as ".inc" or ".pl", and the web server does not have a handler for that extension, then
the server will likely send the contents of the file directly to the requester without the pre-processing that was expected. When that file
contains sensitive information such as database credentials, this may allow the attacker to compromise the application or associated
components.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 219 Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under W eb Root
CanFollow 178 Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity
CanFollow 430 Deployment of W rong Handler
CanFollow 431 Missing Handler
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses an include file to store database credentials:
database.inc
login.phpAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
php
$dbName = 'usersDB';
$dbPassword = 'skjdh#67nkjd3$3$';
?
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
php
include('database.inc');
$db = connectToDB($dbName, $dbPassword);
$db.authenticateUser($username, $password);
?3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-433: Unparsed Raw Web Content Delivery (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/433.html 2/2If the server does not have an explicit handler set for .inc files it may send the contents of database.inc to an attacker without pre-
processing, if the attacker requests the file directly . This will expose the database name and password.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1886 ".inc" file stored under web document root and returned unparsed by the server
CVE-2002-2065 ".inc" file stored under web document root and returned unparsed by the server
CVE-2005-2029 ".inc" file stored under web document root and returned unparsed by the server
CVE-2001-0330 direct request to .pl file leaves it unparsed
CVE-2002-0614 .inc file
CVE-2004-2353 unparsed config.conf file
CVE-2007-3365 Chain: uppercase file extensions causes web server to return script source code instead of executing
the script.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Perform a type check before interpreting files.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not store sensitive information in files which may be misinterpreted.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This overlaps direct requests ( CWE-425 ), alternate path ( CWE-424 ), permissions ( CWE-275 ), and sensitive file under web root
(CWE-219 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "File Handlers",
Page 74. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
