3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-597: Use of Wrong Operator in String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/597.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-597: Use of W rong Operator in String Comparison
Weakness ID: 597
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the wrong operator when comparing a string, such as using "==" when the .equals() method should be used
instead.
 Extended Description
In Java, using == or != to compare two strings for equality actually compares two objects for equality rather than their string values for
equality . Chances are good that the two references will never be equal. While this weakness often only af fects program correctness, if
the equality is used for a security decision, the unintended comparison result could be leveraged to af fect program security .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 480 Use of Incorrect Operator
ChildOf 595 Comparison of Object References Instead of Object Contents
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the example below , two Java String objects are declared and initialized with the same string values. An if statement is used to
determine if the strings are equivalent.
However , the if statement will not be executed as the strings are compared using the "==" operator . For Java objects, such as String
objects, the "==" operator compares object references, not object values. While the two String objects above contain the same string
values, they refer to dif ferent object references, so the System.out.println statement will not be executed. To compare object values,
the previous code could be modified to use the equals method:
Example 2
In the example below , three JavaScript variables are declared and initialized with the same values. Note that JavaScript will change a
value between numeric and string as needed, which is the reason an integer is included with the strings. An if statement is used to
determine whether the values are the same.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String str1 = new String("Hello");
String str2 = new String("Hello");
if (str1 == str2) {
System.out.println("str1 == str2");
}
(good code) 
if (str1.equals(str2)) {
System.out.println("str1 equals str2");
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-597: Use of Wrong Operator in String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/597.html 2/4However , the body of the if statement will not be executed, as the "===" compares both the type of the variable AND the value. As the
types of the first comparison are number and string, it fails. The types in the second are int and reference, so this one fails as well.
The types in the third are reference and string, so it also fails.
While the variables above contain the same values, they are contained in dif ferent types, so the document.getElementById...
statement will not be executed in any of the cases.
To compare object values, the previous code is modified and shown below to use the "==" for value comparison so the comparison in
this example executes the HTML statement:
Example 3
In the example below , two PHP variables are declared and initialized with the same numbers - one as a string, the other as an integer .
Note that PHP will change the string value to a number for a comparison. An if statement is used to determine whether the values are
the same.(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
(i === s1) is FALSE


(s4 === i) is FALSE


(s4 === s1) is FALSE


var i = 65;
var s1 = '65';
var s4 = new String('65');
if (i === s1)
{
document.getElementById("ieq3s1").innerHTML = "(i === s1) is TRUE";
}
if (s4 === i)
{
document.getElementById("s4eq3i").innerHTML = "(s4 === i) is TRUE";
}
if (s4 === s1)
{
document.getElementById("s4eq3s1").innerHTML = "(s4 === s1) is TRUE";
}
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
(i == s1) is FALSE


(s4 == i) is FALSE


(s4 == s1) is FALSE


var i = 65;
var s1 = '65';
var s4 = new String('65');
if (i == s1)
{
document.getElementById("ieq2s1").innerHTML = "(i == s1) is TRUE";
}
if (s4 == i)
{
document.getElementById("s4eq2i").innerHTML = "(s4 == i) is TRUE";
}
if (s4 == s1)
{
document.getElementById("s4eq2s1").innerHTML = "(s4 == s1) is TRUE";
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
var $i = 65;
var $s1 = "65";
if ($i === $s1)
{
echo '($i === $s1) is TRUE'. "\n";
}
else
{
echo '($i === $s1) is FALSE'. "\n";
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-597: Use of Wrong Operator in String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/597.html 3/4However , the body of the if statement will not be executed, as the "===" compares both the type of the variable AND the value. As the
types of the first comparison are number and string, it fails.
While the variables above contain the same values, they are contained in dif ferent types, so the TRUE portion of the if statement will
not be executed.
To compare object values, the previous code is modified and shown below to use the "==" for value comparison (string converted to
number) so the comparison in this example executes the TRUE statement:
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Within Java, use .equals() to compare string values.
Within JavaScript, use == to compare string values.
Within PHP , use == to compare a numeric value to a string value. (PHP converts the string to a number .)
Effectiveness: High
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 847 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1136 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 02. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)EXP03-J Do not use the equality operators when comparing values of
boxed primitives
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)EXP03-J Do not use the equality operators when comparing values of
boxed primitives
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP35-PL CWE More
SpecificUse the correct operator type for comparing values
(good code) Example Language: PHP 
var $i = 65;
var $s1 = "65";
if ($i == $s1)
{
echo '($i == $s1) is TRUE'. "\n";
}
else
{
echo '($i == $s1) is FALSE'. "\n";
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-597: Use of Wrong Operator in String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/597.html 4/4Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ypos", Page
289. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-12-15
(CWE Draft 5, 2006-12-15)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names