3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-110: Struts: Validator Without Form Field (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/110.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-110: Struts: V alidator W ithout Form Field
Weakness ID: 110
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Validation fields that do not appear in forms they are associated with indicate that the validation logic is out of date.
 Extended Description
It is easy for developers to forget to update validation logic when they make changes to an ActionForm class. One indication that
validation logic is not being properly maintained is inconsistencies between the action form and the validation form.
Although J2EE applications are not generally susceptible to memory corruption attacks, if a J2EE application interfaces with native
code that does not perform array bounds checking, an attacker may be able to use an input validation mistake in the J2EE application
to launch a buf fer overflow attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1164 Irrelevant Code
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
It is critically important that validation logic be maintained and kept in sync with the rest of the application.
Unchecked input is the root cause of some of today's worst and most common software security problems.
Cross-site scripting, SQL injection, and process control vulnerabilities all stem from incomplete or absent
input validation.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example shows an inconsistency between an action form and a validation form. with a third field.
This first block of code shows an action form that has two fields, startDate and endDate.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class DateRangeForm extends ValidatorForm {
String startDate, endDate;
public void setStartDate(String startDate) {
this.startDate = startDate;
}
public void setEndDate(String endDate) {
this.endDate = endDate;
}
}3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-110: Struts: Validator Without Form Field (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/110.html 2/2This second block of related code shows a validation form with a third field: scale. The presence of the third field suggests that
DateRangeForm was modified without taking validation into account.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
To find the issue in the implementation, manual checks or automated static analysis could be applied to the XML configuration
files.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Static Analysis
To find the issue in the implementation, manual checks or automated static analysis could be applied to the XML configuration
files.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: V alidator Without Form Field
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: XML 










