3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-464: Addition of Data Structure Sentinel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/464.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-464: Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
Weakness ID: 464
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The accidental addition of a data-structure sentinel can cause serious programming logic problems.
 Extended Description
Data-structure sentinels are often used to mark the structure of data. A common example of this is the null character at the end of
strings or a special sentinel to mark the end of a linked list. It is dangerous to allow this type of control data to be easily accessible.
Therefore, it is important to protect from the addition or modification of sentinels.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
PeerOf 170 Improper Null Termination
PeerOf 463 Deletion of Data Structure Sentinel
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
Generally this error will cause the data structure to not work properly by truncating the data.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example assigns some character values to a list of characters and prints them each individually , and then as a string.
The third character value is intended to be an integer taken from user input and converted to an int.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*foo;
foo=malloc(sizeof(char)\*5);
foo[0]='a';
foo[1]='a';
foo[2]=atoi(getc(stdin));
foo[3]='c';
foo[4]='\0'
printf("%c %c %c %c %c \n",foo[0],foo[1],foo[2],foo[3],foo[4]);
printf("%s\n",foo);3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-464: Addition of Data Structure Sentinel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/464.html 2/2The first print statement will print each character separated by a space. However , if a non-integer is read from stdin by getc, then atoi
will not make a conversion and return 0. When foo is printed as a string, the 0 at character foo[2] will act as a NULL terminator and
foo[3] will never be printed.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
Encapsulate the user from interacting with data sentinels. V alidate user input to verify that sentinels are not present.
Phase: Implementation
Proper error checking can reduce the risk of inadvertently introducing sentinel values into data. For example, if a parsing
function fails or encounters an error , it might return a value that is the same as the sentinel.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. This is not a complete solution.
Phase: Operation
Use OS-level preventative functionality . This is not a complete solution.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 875 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 07 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Addition of data-structure sentinel
CER T C Secure Coding STR03-C Do not inadvertently truncate a null-terminated byte string
CER T C Secure Coding STR06-C Do not assume that strtok() leaves the parse string unchanged
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
