3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1257: Improper Access Control Applied to Mirrored or Aliased Memory Regions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1257.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1257: Improper Access Control Applied to Mirrored or Aliased Memory
Regions
Weakness ID: 1257
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Aliased or mirrored memory regions in hardware designs may have inconsistent read/write permissions enforced by the hardware. A
possible result is that an untrusted agent is blocked from accessing a memory region but is not blocked from accessing the
corresponding aliased memory region.
 Extended Description
Hardware product designs often need to implement memory protection features that enable privileged software to define isolated
memory regions and access control (read/write) policies. Isolated memory regions can be defined on dif ferent memory spaces in a
design (e.g. system physical address, virtual address, memory mapped IO).
Each memory cell should be mapped and assigned a system address that the core software can use to read/write to that memory . It is
possible to map the same memory cell to multiple system addresses such that read/write to any of the aliased system addresses
would be decoded to the same memory cell.
This is commonly done in hardware designs for redundancy and simplifying address decoding logic. If one of the memory regions is
corrupted or faulty , then that hardware can switch to using the data in the mirrored memory region. Memory aliases can also be
created in the system address map if the address decoder unit ignores higher order address bits when mapping a smaller address
region into the full system address.
A common security weakness that can exist in such memory mapping is that aliased memory regions could have dif ferent read/write
access protections enforced by the hardware such that an untrusted agent is blocked from accessing a memory address but is not
blocked from accessing the corresponding aliased memory address. Such inconsistency can then be used to bypass the access
protection of the primary memory block and read or modify the protected memory .
An untrusted agent could also possibly create memory aliases in the system address map for malicious purposes if it is able to
change the mapping of an address region or modify memory region sizes.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1257: Improper Access Control Applied to Mirrored or Aliased Memory Regions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1257.html 2/3Network on Chip Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read MemoryHigh
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify MemoryHigh
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: InstabilityHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In a System-on-a-Chip (SoC) design the system fabric uses 16 bit addresses. An IP unit (Unit\_A) has 4 kilobyte of internal memory
which is mapped into a 16 kilobyte address range in the system fabric address map.
System Address Mapped to
0x0000 - 0x3FFF Unit\_A registers : 0x0000 - 0x0FFF
0x4000 - 0xFFFF Other IPs & Memory
To protect the register controls in Unit\_A unprivileged software is blocked from accessing addresses between 0x0000 - 0x0FFF .
The address decoder of Unit\_A masks of f the higher order address bits and decodes only the lower 12 bits for computing the of fset
into the 4 kilobyte internal memory space.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
The checks should be applied for consistency access rights between primary memory regions and any mirrored or aliased
memory regions. If dif ferent memory protection units (MPU) are protecting the aliased regions, their protected range definitions
and policies should be synchronized.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
The controls that allow enabling memory aliases or changing the size of mapped memory regions should only be programmable
by trusted software components.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
In this design the aliased memory address ranges are these:
0x0000 - 0x0FFF
0x1000 - 0x1FFF
0x2000 - 0x2FFF
0x3000 - 0x3FFF
The same register can be accessed using four different addresses: 0x0000, 0x1000, 0x2000, 0x3000.
The system address filter only blocks access to range 0x0000 - 0x0FFF and does not block access to the aliased addresses in 0x1000 -
0x3FFF range. Thus, untrusted software can leverage the aliased memory addresses to bypass the memory protection.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
In this design the aliased memory addresses (0x1000 - 0x3FFF) could be blocked from all system software access since they are not used
by software.
Alternately, the MPU logic can be changed to apply the memory protection policies to the full address range mapped to Unit\_A (0x0000 -
0x3FFF).3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1257: Improper Access Control Applied to Mirrored or Aliased Memory Regions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1257.html 3/3Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-456 Infected Memory
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-29
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications