3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1310: Missing Ability to Patch ROM Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1310.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1310: Missing Ability to Patch ROM Code
Weakness ID: 1310
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Missing an ability to patch ROM code may leave a System or System-on-Chip (SoC) in a vulnerable state.
 Extended Description
A System or System-on-Chip (SoC) that implements a boot process utilizing security mechanisms such as Root-of-T rust (RoT)
typically starts by executing code from a Read-only-Memory (ROM) component. The code in ROM is immutable, hence any security
vulnerabilities discovered in the ROM code can never be fixed for the systems that are already in use.
A common weakness is that the ROM does not have the ability to patch if security vulnerabilities are uncovered after the system gets
shipped. This leaves the system in a vulnerable state where an adversary can compromise the SoC.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1329 Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis issue could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and can be identified later
during Testing.
Implementation This issue could be introduced during implementation and can be identified later during Testing.
Integration This issue could be introduced during integration and can be identified later during Testing.
Manufacturing This issue could be introduced during manufacturing and can be identified later during Testing.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Reduce Maintainability
When the system is unable to be patched, it can be left in a vulnerable state.High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A System-on-Chip (SOC) implements a Root-of-T rust (RoT) in ROM to boot secure code. However , at times this ROM code might
have security vulnerabilities and need to be patched. Since ROM is immutable, it can be impossible to patch.
ROM does not have built-in application-programming interfaces (APIs) to patch if the code is vulnerable. Implement mechanisms to
patch the vulnerable ROM code.
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1310: Missing Ability to Patch ROM Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1310.html 2/3The example code is taken from the SoC peripheral wrapper inside the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21. The wrapper is
used for connecting the communications between SoC peripherals, such as crypto-engines, direct memory access (DMA), reset
controllers, JT AG, etc. The secure implementation of the SoC wrapper should allow users to boot from a ROM for Linux
(i\_bootrom\_linux) or from a patchable ROM (i\_bootrom\_patch) if the Linux bootrom has security or functional issues.The example
code is taken from the SoC peripheral wrapper inside the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21. The wrapper is used for
connecting the communications between SoC peripherals, such as crypto-engines, direct memory access (DMA), reset controllers,
JTAG, etc. The secure implementation of the SoC wrapper should allow users to boot from a ROM for Linux (i\_bootrom\_linux) or from
a patchable ROM (i\_bootrom\_patch) if the Linux bootrom has security or functional issues.
The above implementation causes the ROM data to be hardcoded for the linux system (rom\_rdata\_linux) regardless of the value of
ariane\_boot\_sel\_i. Therefore, the data (rom\_rdata\_patch) from the patchable ROM code is never used [ REF-1396 ].
This weakness disables the ROM's ability to be patched. If attackers uncover security vulnerabilities in the ROM, the users must
replace the entire device. Otherwise, the weakness exposes the system to a vulnerable state forever .
A fix to this issue is to enable rom\_rdata to be selected from the patchable rom (rom\_rdata\_patch) [ REF-1397 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Secure patch support to allow ROM code to be patched on the next boot.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Some parts of the hardware initialization or signature verification done to authenticate patches will always be "not
patchable."
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Support patches that can be programmed in-field or during manufacturing through hardware fuses. This feature can be used for
limited patching of devices after shipping, or for the next batch of silicon devices manufactured, without changing the full device
ROM.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Patches that use hardware fuses will have limitations in terms of size and the number of patches that can be supported.
Note that some parts of the hardware initialization or signature verification done to authenticate patches will always be "not
patchable."
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
bootrom i\_bootrom\_patch (
.clk\_i ,
.req\_i ( rom\_req ),
.addr\_i ( rom\_addr ),
.rdata\_o ( rom\_rdata\_patch )
);
bootrom\_linux i\_bootrom\_linux (
.clk\_i ,
.req\_i ( rom\_req ),
.addr\_i ( rom\_addr ),
.rdata\_o ( rom\_rdata\_linux )
);
assign rom\_rdata = (ariane\_boot\_sel\_i) ? rom\_rdata\_linux : rom\_rdata\_linux;
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
bootrom i\_bootrom\_patch (
.clk\_i ,
.req\_i ( rom\_req ),
.addr\_i ( rom\_addr ),
.rdata\_o ( rom\_rdata\_patch )
);
bootrom\_linux i\_bootrom\_linux (
.clk\_i ,
.req\_i ( rom\_req ),
.addr\_i ( rom\_addr ),
.rdata\_o ( rom\_rdata\_linux )
);
assign rom\_rdata = (ariane\_boot\_sel\_i) ? rom\_rdata\_patch : rom\_rdata\_linux;
...3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1310: Missing Ability to Patch ROM Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1310.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-682 Exploitation of Firmware or ROM Code with Unpatchable V ulnerabilities
 References
[REF-1396] "riscv\_peripherals.sv line 534". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/75e5c0700b5a02e744f006fe8a09f f3c2ccdd32d/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/openpiton/riscv\_peripheral
s.sv#L534 >. URL validated: 2024-02-12 .
[REF-1397] "Fix for riscv\_peripherals.sv line 534". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/cwe\_1310\_riscv\_peripheral/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/openpiton/riscv\_peripherals.sv#L534 >. URL
validated: 2024-02-12 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-25
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Narasimha Kumar V Mangipudi Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-09-07 Jason Fung Intel
suggested removal of incorrect references
2023-11-29 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-29 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications