3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-122: Heap-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/122.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow
Weakness ID: 122
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A heap overflow condition is a buf fer overflow , where the buf fer that can be overwritten is allocated in the heap portion of memory ,
generally meaning that the buf fer was allocated using a routine such as malloc().
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
ChildOf 788 Access of Memory Location After End of Buf fer
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory)
Buffer overflows generally lead to crashes. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are possible,
including putting the program into an infinite loop.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Modify Memory
Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of
a program's implicit security policy . Besides important user data, heap-based overflows can be used
to overwrite function pointers that may be living in memory , pointing it to the attacker's code. Even in
applications that do not explicitly use function pointers, the run-time will usually leave many in
memory . For example, object methods in C++ are generally implemented using function pointers.
Even in C programs, there is often a global of fset table used by the underlying runtime.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other
security service.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
While buf fer overflow examples can be rather complex, it is possible to have very simple, yet still exploitable, heap-based buf fer
overflows:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define BUFSIZE 256
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char \*buf;
buf = (char \*)malloc(sizeof(char)\*BUFSIZE);
t (bf [1])3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-122: Heap-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/122.html 2/4The buf fer is allocated heap memory with a fixed size, but there is no guarantee the string in argv[1] will not exceed this size and
cause an overflow .
Example 2
This example applies an encoding procedure to an input string and stores it into a buf fer.
The programmer attempts to encode the ampersand character in the user-controlled string, however the length of the string is
validated before the encoding procedure is applied. Furthermore, the programmer assumes encoding expansion will only expand a
given character by a factor of 4, while the encoding of the ampersand expands by 5. As a result, when the encoding procedure
expands the string it is possible to overflow the destination buf fer if the attacker provides a string of many ampersands.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-43537 Chain: in a web browser , an unsigned 64-bit integer is forcibly cast to a 32-bit integer ( CWE-681 ) and
potentially leading to an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ). If an integer overflow occurs, this can cause heap
memory corruption ( CWE-122 )
CVE-2007-4268 Chain: integer signedness error ( CWE-195 ) passes signed comparison, leading to heap overflow
(CWE-122 )
CVE-2009-2523 Chain: product does not handle when an input string is not NULL terminated ( CWE-170 ), leading to
buffer over-read ( CWE-125 ) or heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
CVE-2021-29529 Chain: machine-learning product can have a heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ) when some
integer-oriented bounds are calculated by using ceiling() and floor() on floating point values ( CWE-
1339 )
CVE-2010-1866 Chain: integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) causes a negative signed value, which later bypasses a maximum-
only check ( CWE-839 ), leading to heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Pre-design: Use a language or compiler that performs automatic bounds checking.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Not a complete solution.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardeningstrcpy(buf, argv[1]);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \* copy\_input(char \*user\_supplied\_string){
int i, dst\_index;
char \*dst\_buf = (char\*)malloc(4\*sizeof(char) \* MAX\_SIZE);
if ( MAX\_SIZE <= strlen(user\_supplied\_string) ){
die("user string too long, die evil hacker!");
}
dst\_index = 0;
for ( i = 0; i < strlen(user\_supplied\_string); i++ ){
if( '&' == user\_supplied\_string[i] ){
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = '&';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'a';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'm';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'p';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = ';';
}
else if ('<' == user\_supplied\_string[i] ){
/\* encode to < \*/
}
else dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = user\_supplied\_string[i];
}
return dst\_buf;
}3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-122: Heap-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/122.html 3/4Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Implementation
Implement and perform bounds checking on input.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Do not use dangerous functions such as gets. Look for their safe equivalent, which checks for the boundary .
Phase: Operation
Use OS-level preventative functionality . This is not a complete solution, but it provides some defense in depth.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Heap-based buf fer overflows are usually just as dangerous as stack-based buf fer overflows.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Heap overflow
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-122: Heap-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/122.html 4/4CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C CWE More
SpecificGuarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-92 Forced Integer Overflow
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Heap Overruns" Page 138. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Nonexecutable
Stack", Page 76. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Protection
Mechanisms", Page 189. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications