3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-242: Use of Inherently Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/242.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-242: Use of Inherently Dangerous Function
Weakness ID: 242
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product calls a function that can never be guaranteed to work safely .
 Extended Description
Certain functions behave in dangerous ways regardless of how they are used. Functions in this category were often implemented
without taking security concerns into account. The gets() function is unsafe because it does not perform bounds checking on the size
of its input. An attacker can easily send arbitrarily-sized input to gets() and overflow the destination buf fer. Similarly , the >> operator is
unsafe to use when reading into a statically-allocated character array because it does not perform bounds checking on the size of its
input. An attacker can easily send arbitrarily-sized input to the >> operator and overflow the destination buf fer.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1177 Use of Prohibited Code
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1228 API / Function Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The code below calls gets() to read information into a buf fer.
The gets() function in C is inherently unsafe.
Example 2
The code below calls the gets() function to read in data from the command line.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char buf[BUFSIZE];
gets(buf);
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-242: Use of Inherently Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/242.html 2/3However , gets() is inherently unsafe, because it copies all input from STDIN to the buf fer without checking size. This allows the user
to provide a string that is larger than the buf fer size, resulting in an overflow condition.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-4004 FTP client uses inherently insecure gets() function and is setuid root on some systems, allowing buf fer
overflow
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Requirements
Ban the use of dangerous functions. Use their safe equivalent.
Phase: T esting
Use grep or static analysis tools to spot usage of dangerous functions.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Dangerous Functions
CER T C Secure Coding POS33-C CWE More Abstract Do not use vfork()
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
char buf[24];
printf("Please enter your name and press \n");
gets(buf);
...
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-242: Use of Inherently Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/242.html 3/3[REF-194] Herbert Schildt. "Herb Schildt's C++ Programming Cookbook". Chapter 5. W orking with I/O. McGraw-Hill Osborne
Media. 2008-04-28.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "gets and fgets" Page 163. 2nd Edition. Microsoft
Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names