3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-14: Compiler Removal of Code to Clear Buﬀers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/14.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-14: Compiler Removal of Code to Clear Buffers
Weakness ID: 14
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Sensitive memory is cleared according to the source code, but compiler optimizations leave the memory untouched when it is not
read from again, aka "dead store removal."
 Extended Description
This compiler optimization error occurs when:
1. Secret data are stored in memory .
2. The secret data are scrubbed from memory by overwriting its contents.
3. The source code is compiled using an optimizing compiler , which identifies and removes the function that overwrites the
contents as a dead store because the memory is not used subsequently .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 733 Compiler Optimization Removal or Modification of Security-critical Code
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Build and Compilation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Bypass Protection Mechanism
This weakness will allow data that has not been cleared from memory to be read. If this data
contains sensitive password information, then an attacker can read the password and use the
information to bypass protection mechanisms.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads a password from the user , uses the password to connect to a back-end mainframe and then attempts to
scrub the password from memory using memset().About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void GetData(char \*MFAddr) {
char pwd[64];
if (GetPasswordFromUser(pwd, sizeof(pwd))) {
if (ConnectToMainframe(MFAddr, pwd)) {
// Interaction with mainframe
}
}
memset(pwd, 0, sizeof(pwd));
}3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-14: Compiler Removal of Code to Clear Buﬀers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/14.html 2/3The code in the example will behave correctly if it is executed verbatim, but if the code is compiled using an optimizing compiler , such
as Microsoft V isual C++ .NET or GCC 3.x, then the call to memset() will be removed as a dead store because the buf fer pwd is not
used after its value is overwritten [18]. Because the buf fer pwd contains a sensitive value, the application may be vulnerable to attack
if the data are left memory resident. If attackers are able to access the correct region of memory , they may use the recovered
password to gain control of the system.
It is common practice to overwrite sensitive data manipulated in memory , such as passwords or cryptographic keys, in order to
prevent attackers from learning system secrets. However , with the advent of optimizing compilers, programs do not always behave as
their source code alone would suggest. In the example, the compiler interprets the call to memset() as dead code because the
memory being written to is not subsequently used, despite the fact that there is clearly a security motivation for the operation to occur .
The problem here is that many compilers, and in fact many programming languages, do not take this and other security concerns into
consideration in their ef forts to improve ef ficiency .
Attackers typically exploit this type of vulnerability by using a core dump or runtime mechanism to access the memory used by a
particular application and recover the secret information. Once an attacker has access to the secret information, it is relatively
straightforward to further exploit the system and possibly compromise other resources with which the application interacts.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Store the sensitive data in a "volatile" memory location if available.
Phase: Build and Compilation
If possible, configure your compiler so that it does not remove dead stores.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Where possible, encrypt sensitive data that are used by a software system.
 Detection Methods
Black Box
This specific weakness is impossible to detect using black box methods. While an analyst could examine memory to see that it
has not been scrubbed, an analysis of the executable would not be successful. This is because the compiler has already
removed the relevant code. Only the source code shows whether the programmer intended to clear the memory or not, so this
weakness is indistinguishable from others.
White Box
This weakness is only detectable using white box methods (see black box detection factor). Careful analysis is required to
determine if the code is likely to be removed by the compiler .
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 747 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 14 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Insecure Compiler Optimization
PLOVER Sensitive memory uncleared by compiler optimization
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More Insecure Storage
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-14: Compiler Removal of Code to Clear Buﬀers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/14.html 3/3Specific
CER T C Secure Coding MSC06-C Be aware of compiler optimization when dealing with
sensitive data
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "A Compiler Optimization Caveat" Page 322. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-124] Michael Howard. "When scrubbing secrets in memory doesn't work". BugT raq. 2002-11-05. < http://cert.uni-
stuttgart.de/archive/bugtraq/2002/11/msg00046.html >.
[REF-125] Michael Howard. "Some Bad News and Some Good News". Microsoft. 2002-10-21. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/previous-versions/ms972826(v=msdn.10) >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-126] Joseph W agner . "GNU GCC: Optimizer Removes Code Necessary for Security". Bugtraq. 2002-11-16.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names