3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-708: Incorrect Ownership Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/708.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-708: Incorrect Ownership Assignment
Weakness ID: 708
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product assigns an owner to a resource, but the owner is outside of the intended control sphere.
 Extended Description
This may allow the resource to be manipulated by actors outside of the intended control sphere.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 282 Improper Ownership Management
CanAlsoBe 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
An attacker could read and modify data for which they do not have permissions to access directly .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-5101 File system sets wrong ownership and group when creating a new file.
CVE-2007-4238 OS installs program with bin owner/group, allowing modification.
CVE-2007-1716 Manager does not properly restore ownership of a reusable resource when a user logs out, allowing
privilege escalation.
CVE-2005-3148 Backup software restores symbolic links with incorrect uid/gid.
CVE-2005-1064 Product changes the ownership of files that a symlink points to, instead of the symlink itself.
CVE-2011-1551 Component assigns ownership of sensitive directory tree to a user account, which can be leveraged to
perform privileged operations.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Policy
Periodically review the privileges and their owners.
Phase: T esting
Use automated tools to check for privilege settings.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-708: Incorrect Ownership Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/708.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 944 SFP Secondary Cluster: Access Management
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This overlaps verification errors, permissions, and privileges.
A closely related weakness is the incorrect assignment of groups to a resource. It is not clear whether it would fall under this entry or
require a dif ferent entry .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-09-09
(CWE 1.0, 2008-09-09)CWE Content Team MITRE
Note: this date reflects when the entry was first published. Draft versions of this entry were provided to
members of the CWE community and modified between Draft 9 and 1.0.
 Modifications
