3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1312: Missing Protection for Mirrored Regions in On-Chip Fabric Firewall (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1312.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1312: Missing Protection for Mirrored Regions in On-Chip Fabric Firewall
Weakness ID: 1312
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The firewall in an on-chip fabric protects the main addressed region, but it does not protect any mirrored memory or memory-mapped-
IO (MMIO) regions.
 Extended Description
Few fabrics mirror memory and address ranges, where mirrored regions contain copies of the original data. This redundancy is used
to achieve fault tolerance. Whatever protections the fabric firewall implements for the original region should also apply to the mirrored
regions. If not, an attacker could bypass existing read/write protections by reading from/writing to the mirrored regions to leak or
corrupt the original data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
PeerOf 1251 Mirrored Regions with Dif ferent V alues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A memory-controller IP block is connected to the on-chip fabric in a System on Chip (SoC). The memory controller is configured to
divide the memory into four parts: one original and three mirrored regions inside the memory . The upper two bits of the address
indicate which region is being addressed. 00 indicates the original region and 01, 10, and 11 are used to address the mirrored
regions. All four regions operate in a lock-step manner and are always synchronized. The firewall in the on-chip fabric is programmed
to protect the assets in the memory .
The firewall only protects the original range but not the mirrored regions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1312: Missing Protection for Mirrored Regions in On-Chip Fabric Firewall (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1312.html 2/2The attacker (as an unprivileged user) sends a write transaction to the mirrored region. The mirrored region has an address with the
upper two bits set to "10" and the remaining bits of the address pointing to an asset. The firewall does not block this write transaction.
Once the write is successful, contents in the protected-memory region are also updated. Thus, the attacker can bypass existing,
memory protections.
Firewall should protect mirrored regions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The fabric firewall should apply the same protections as the original region to the mirrored regions.
Phase: Implementation
The fabric firewall should apply the same protections as the original region to the mirrored regions.
 Detection Methods
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Using an external debugger , send write transactions to mirrored regions to test if original, write-protected regions are modified.
Similarly , send read transactions to mirrored regions to test if the original, read-protected signals can be read.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-456 Infected Memory
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 References
[REF-1134] Taku Izumi, Fujitsu Limited. "Address Range Memory Mirroring". 2016.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-01
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
