3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-606: Unchecked Input for Loop Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/606.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-606: Unchecked Input for Loop Condition
Weakness ID: 606
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly check inputs that are used for loop conditions, potentially leading to a denial of service or other
consequences because of excessive looping.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1284 Improper V alidation of Specified Quantity in Input
CanPrecede 834 Excessive Iteration
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 2
In the following C/C++ example the method processMessageFromSocket() will get a message from a socket, placed into a buf fer, and
will parse the contents of the buf fer into a structure that contains the message length and the message body . A for loop is used to
copy the message body into a local character string which will be passed to another method for processing.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void iterate(int n){
int i;
for (i = 0; i < n; i++){
foo();
}
}
void iterateFoo()
{
unsigned int num;
scanf("%u",#);
iterate(num);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int processMessageFromSocket(int socket) {
int success;
char buffer[BUFFER\_SIZE];
char message[MESSAGE\_SIZE];3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-606: Unchecked Input for Loop Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/606.html 2/3However , the message length variable from the structure is used as the condition for ending the for loop without validating that the
message length variable accurately reflects the length of the message body ( CWE-606 ). This can result in a buf fer over-read ( CWE-
125) by reading from memory beyond the bounds of the buf fer if the message length variable indicates a length that is longer than the
size of a message body ( CWE-130 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Do not use user-controlled data for loop conditions.
Phase: Implementation
Perform input validation.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 994 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to V ariable
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP25 Tainted input to variable
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-606
// get message from socket and store into buffer
//Ignoring possibliity that buffer > BUFFER\_SIZE
if (getMessage(socket, buffer, BUFFER\_SIZE) > 0) {
// place contents of the buffer into message structure
ExMessage \*msg = recastBuffer(buffer);
// copy message body into string for processing
int index;
for (index = 0; index < msg->msgLength; index++) {
message[index] = msg->msgBody[index];
}
message[index] = '\0';
// process message
success = processMessage(message);
}
return success;
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-606: Unchecked Input for Loop Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/606.html 3/3
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Looping
Constructs", Page 327. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-606. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications