3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-194: Unexpected Sign Extension (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/194.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-194: Unexpected Sign Extension
Weakness ID: 194
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs an operation on a number that causes it to be sign extended when it is transformed into a larger data type.
When the original number is negative, this can produce unexpected values that lead to resultant weaknesses.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory; Other
When an unexpected sign extension occurs in code that operates directly on memory buf fers, such
as a size value or a memory index, then it could cause the program to write or read outside the
boundaries of the intended buf fer. If the numeric value is associated with an application-level
resource, such as a quantity or price for a product in an e-commerce site, then the sign extension
could produce a value that is much higher (or lower) than the application's allowable range.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads a maximum size and performs a sanity check on that size. It then performs a strncpy , assuming it will not
exceed the boundaries of the array . While the use of "short s" is forced in this particular example, short int's are frequently used within
real-world code, such as code that processes structured data.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int GetUntrustedInt () {
return(0x0000FFFF);
}
void main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char path[256];
char \*input;
int i;
short s;
unsigned int sz;
i = GetUntrustedInt();
s = i;
/\*i1 it th fthkCWE697\*/3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-194: Unexpected Sign Extension (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/194.html 2/3This code first exhibits an example of CWE-839 , allowing "s" to be a negative number . When the negative short "s" is converted to an
unsigned integer , it becomes an extremely large positive integer . When this converted integer is used by strncpy() it will lead to a
buffer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2018-10887 Chain: unexpected sign extension ( CWE-194 ) leads to integer overflow ( CWE-190 ), causing an out-of-
bounds read ( CWE-125 )
CVE-1999-0234 Sign extension error produces -1 value that is treated as a command separator , enabling OS command
injection.
CVE-2003-0161 Product uses "char" type for input character . When char is implemented as a signed type, ASCII value
0xFF (255), a sign extension produces a -1 value that is treated as a program-specific separator value,
effectively disabling a length check and leading to a buf fer overflow . This is also a multiple
interpretation error .
CVE-2007-4988 chain: signed short width value in image processor is sign extended during conversion to unsigned int,
which leads to integer overflow and heap-based buf fer overflow .
CVE-2006-1834 chain: signedness error allows bypass of a length check; later sign extension makes exploitation
easier .
CVE-2005-2753 Sign extension when manipulating Pascal-style strings leads to integer overflow and improper memory
copy.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Avoid using signed variables if you don't need to represent negative values. When negative values are needed, perform
validation after you save those values to larger data types, or before passing them to functions that are expecting unsigned
values.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Sign extension errors can lead to buf fer overflows and other memory-based problems. They are also likely to be factors in other
weaknesses that are not based on memory operations, but rely on numeric calculation.
Maintenance
/\* s is -1 so it passes the safety check - CWE-697 \*/
if (s > 256) {
DiePainfully("go away!\n");
}
/\* s is sign-extended and saved in sz \*/
sz = s;
/\* output: i=65535, s=-1, sz=4294967295 - your mileage may vary \*/
printf("i=%d, s=%d, sz=%u\n", i, s, sz);
input = GetUserInput("Enter pathname:");
/\* strncpy interprets s as unsigned int, so it's treated as MAX\_INT
(CWE-195), enabling buffer overflow (CWE-119) \*/
strncpy(path, input, s);
path[255] = '\0'; /\* don't want CWE-170 \*/
printf("Path is: %s\n", path);
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-194: Unexpected Sign Extension (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/194.html 3/3This entry is closely associated with signed-to-unsigned conversion errors ( CWE-195 ) and other numeric errors. These relationships
need to be more closely examined within CWE.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Sign extension error
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
CER T C Secure Coding INT31-C CWE More
SpecificEnsure that integer conversions do not result in lost or
misinterpreted data
 References
[REF-161] John McDonald, Mark Dowd and Justin Schuh. "C Language Issues for Application Security". 2008-01-25.
.
[REF-162] Robert Seacord. "Integral Security". 2006-11-03. < https://drdobbs.com/cpp/integral-security/193501774 >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names