3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-197: Numeric Truncation Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/197.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-197: Numeric T runcation Error
Weakness ID: 197
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Truncation errors occur when a primitive is cast to a primitive of a smaller size and data is lost in the conversion.
 Extended Description
When a primitive is cast to a smaller primitive, the high order bits of the large value are lost in the conversion, potentially resulting in
an unexpected value that is not equal to the original value. This value may be required as an index into a buf fer, a loop iterator , or
simply necessary state data. In any case, the value cannot be trusted and the system will be in an undefined state. While this method
may be employed viably to isolate the low bits of a value, this usage is rare, and truncation usually implies that an implementation
error has occurred.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
CanAlsoBe 192 Integer Coercion Error
CanAlsoBe 194 Unexpected Sign Extension
CanAlsoBe 195 Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error
CanAlsoBe 196 Unsigned to Signed Conversion Error
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
The true value of the data is lost and corrupted data is used.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example, while not exploitable, shows the possible mangling of values associated with truncation errors:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int intPrimitive;
short shortPrimitive;
intPrimitive = (int)(~((int)0) ^ (1 << (sizeof(int)\*8-1)));
shortPrimitive = intPrimitive;
printf("Int MAXINT: %d\nShort MAXINT: %d\n", intPrimitive, shortPrimitive);3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-197: Numeric Truncation Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/197.html 2/4The above code, when compiled and run on certain systems, returns the following output:
This problem may be exploitable when the truncated value is used as an array index, which can happen implicitly when 64-bit values
are used as indexes, as they are truncated to 32 bits.
Example 2
In the following Java example, the method updateSalesForProduct is part of a business application class that updates the sales
information for a particular product. The method receives as arguments the product ID and the integer amount sold. The product ID is
used to retrieve the total product count from an inventory object which returns the count as an integer . Before calling the method of
the sales object to update the sales count the integer values are converted to The primitive type short since the method requires short
type for the method arguments.
However , a numeric truncation error can occur if the integer values are higher than the maximum value allowed for the primitive type
short. This can cause unexpected results or loss or corruption of data. In this case the sales database may be corrupted with incorrect
data. Explicit casting from a from a larger size primitive type to a smaller size primitive type should be prevented. The following
example an if statement is added to validate that the integer values less than the maximum value for the primitive type short before
the explicit cast and the call to the sales method.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-17087 Chain: integer truncation ( CWE-197 ) causes small buf fer allocation ( CWE-131 ) leading to out-of-
bounds write ( CWE-787 ) in kernel pool, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2009-0231 Integer truncation of length value leads to heap-based buf fer overflow .
CVE-2008-3282 Size of a particular type changes for 64-bit platforms, leading to an integer truncation in document
processor causes incorrect index to be generated.
 Potential Mitigations(result) 
Int MAXINT: 2147483647
Short MAXINT: -1
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
// update sales database for number of product sold with product ID
public void updateSalesForProduct(String productID, int amountSold) {
// get the total number of products in inventory database
int productCount = inventory.getProductCount(productID);
// convert integer values to short, the method for the
// sales object requires the parameters to be of type short
short count = (short) productCount;
short sold = (short) amountSold;
// update sales database for product
sales.updateSalesCount(productID, count, sold);
}
...
(good code) Example Language: Java 
...
// update sales database for number of product sold with product ID
public void updateSalesForProduct(String productID, int amountSold) {
// get the total number of products in inventory database
int productCount = inventory.getProductCount(productID);
// make sure that integer numbers are not greater than
// maximum value for type short before converting
if ((productCount < Short.MAX\_VALUE) && (amountSold < Short.MAX\_VALUE)) {
// convert integer values to short, the method for the
// sales object requires the parameters to be of type short
short count = (short) productCount;
short sold = (short) amountSold;
// update sales database for product
sales.updateSalesCount(productID, count, sold);
else {
// throw exception or perform other processing
...
}
}
...3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-197: Numeric Truncation Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/197.html 3/4Phase: Implementation
Ensure that no casts, implicit or explicit, take place that move from a larger size primitive or a smaller size primitive.
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 848 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 5 - Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1137 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 03. Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1159 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 05. Floating Point (FLP)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This weakness has traditionally been under-studied and under-reported, although vulnerabilities in popular software have been
published in 2008 and 2009.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Numeric truncation error
CLASP Truncation error
CER T C Secure Coding FIO34-C CWE More
AbstractDistinguish between characters read from a file and EOF or
WEOF
CER T C Secure Coding FLP34-C CWE More
AbstractEnsure that floating point conversions are within range of the
new type
CER T C Secure Coding INT02-C Understand integer conversion rules
CER T C Secure Coding INT05-C Do not use input functions to convert character data if they
cannot handle all possible inputs
CER T C Secure Coding INT31-C CWE More
AbstractEnsure that integer conversions do not result in lost or
misinterpreted data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)NUM12-J Ensure conversions of numeric types to narrower types do not
result in lost or misinterpreted data
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-197: Numeric Truncation Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/197.html 4/4
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T runcation",
Page 259. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications