3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges
Weakness ID: 250
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs an operation at a privilege level that is higher than the minimum level required, which creates new weaknesses
or amplifies the consequences of other weaknesses.
 Extended Description
New weaknesses can be exposed because running with extra privileges, such as root or Administrator , can disable the normal
security checks being performed by the operating system or surrounding environment. Other pre-existing weaknesses can turn into
security vulnerabilities if they occur while operating at raised privileges.
Privilege management functions can behave in some less-than-obvious ways, and they have dif ferent quirks on dif ferent platforms.
These inconsistencies are particularly pronounced if you are transitioning from one non-root user to another . Signal handlers and
spawned processes run at the privilege of the owning process, so if a process is running as root when a signal fires or a sub-process
is executed, the signal handler or sub-process will operate with root privileges.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Installation
Architecture and DesignIf an application has this design problem, then it can be easier for the developer to make
implementation-related errors such as CWE-271 (Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors). In addition, the
consequences of Privilege Chaining ( CWE-268 ) can become more severe.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Application Data;
DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
An attacker will be able to gain access to any resources that are allowed by the extra privileges.
Common results include executing code, disabling services, and reading restricted data.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 2/6Example 1
This code temporarily raises the program's privileges to allow creation of a new user folder .
While the program only raises its privilege level to create the folder and immediately lowers it again, if the call to os.mkdir() throws an
exception, the call to lowerPrivileges() will not occur . As a result, the program is indefinitely operating in a raised privilege state,
possibly allowing further exploitation to occur .
Example 2
The following code calls chroot() to restrict the application to a subset of the filesystem below APP\_HOME in order to prevent an
attacker from using the program to gain unauthorized access to files located elsewhere. The code then opens a file specified by the
user and processes the contents of the file.
Constraining the process inside the application's home directory before opening any files is a valuable security measure. However ,
the absence of a call to setuid() with some non-zero value means the application is continuing to operate with unnecessary root
privileges. Any successful exploit carried out by an attacker against the application can now result in a privilege escalation attack
because any malicious operations will be performed with the privileges of the superuser . If the application drops to the privilege level
of a non-root user , the potential for damage is substantially reduced.
Example 3
This application intends to use a user's location to determine the timezone the user is in:
This is unnecessary use of the location API, as this information is already available using the Android Time API. Always be sure there
is not another way to obtain needed information before resorting to using the location API.
Example 4
This code uses location to determine the user's current US State location.
First the application must declare that it requires the ACCESS\_FINE\_LOCA TION permission in the application's manifest.xml:
During execution, a call to getLastLocation() will return a location based on the application's location permissions. In this case the
application has permission for the most accurate location possible:(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def makeNewUserDir(username):
if invalidUsername(username):
#avoid CWE-22 and CWE-78
print('Usernames cannot contain invalid characters')
return False
try:
raisePrivileges()
os.mkdir('/home/' + username)
lowerPrivileges()
except OSError:
print('Unable to create new user directory for user:' + username)
return False
return True
(bad code) Example Language: C 
chroot(APP\_HOME);
chdir("/");
FILE\* data = fopen(argv[1], "r+");
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
locationClient = new LocationClient(this, this, this);
locationClient.connect();
Location userCurrLocation;
userCurrLocation = locationClient.getLastLocation();
setTimeZone(userCurrLocation);
(bad code) Example Language: XML 

(bad code) Example Language: Java 
locationClient = new LocationClient(this, this, this);
locationClient.connect();
Location userCurrLocation;
CL ti ltiClittLtL ti()3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 3/6While the application needs this information, it does not need to use the ACCESS\_FINE\_LOCA TION permission, as the
ACCESS\_COARSE\_LOCA TION permission will be suf ficient to identify which US state the user is in.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-4217 FTP client program on a certain OS runs with setuid privileges and has a buf fer overflow . Most clients
do not need extra privileges, so an overflow is not a vulnerability for those clients.
CVE-2008-1877 Program runs with privileges and calls another program with the same privileges, which allows read of
arbitrary files.
CVE-2007-5159 OS incorrectly installs a program with setuid privileges, allowing users to gain privileges.
CVE-2008-4638 Composite: application running with high privileges ( CWE-250 ) allows user to specify a restricted file to
process, which generates a parsing error that leaks the contents of the file ( CWE-209 ).
CVE-2008-0162 Program does not drop privileges before calling another program, allowing code execution.
CVE-2008-0368 setuid root program allows creation of arbitrary files through command line argument.
CVE-2007-3931 Installation script installs some programs as setuid when they shouldn't be.
CVE-2020-3812 mail program runs as root but does not drop its privileges before attempting to access a file. Attacker
can use a symlink from their home directory to a directory only readable by root, then determine
whether the file exists based on the response.
CVE-2003-0908 Product launches Help functionality while running with raised privileges, allowing command execution
using Windows message to access "open file" dialog.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Identify the functionality that requires additional privileges, such as access to privileged operating system resources. W rap and
centralize this functionality if possible, and isolate the privileged code as much as possible from other code [ REF-76 ]. Raise
privileges as late as possible, and drop them as soon as possible to avoid CWE-271 . Avoid weaknesses such as CWE-288 and
CWE-420 by protecting all possible communication channels that could interact with the privileged code, such as a secondary
socket that is only intended to be accessed by administrators.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Identify the functionality that requires additional privileges, such as access to privileged operating system resources. W rap and
centralize this functionality if possible, and isolate the privileged code as much as possible from other code [ REF-76 ]. Raise
privileges as late as possible, and drop them as soon as possible to avoid CWE-271 . Avoid weaknesses such as CWE-288 and
CWE-420 by protecting all possible communication channels that could interact with the privileged code, such as a secondary
socket that is only intended to be accessed by administrators.
Phase: Implementation
Perform extensive input validation for any privileged code that must be exposed to the user and reject anything that does not fit
your strict requirements.
Phase: Implementation
When dropping privileges, ensure that they have been dropped successfully to avoid CWE-273 . As protection mechanisms in
the environment get stronger , privilege-dropping calls may fail even if it seems like they would always succeed.
Phase: Implementation
If circumstances force you to run with extra privileges, then determine the minimum access level necessary . First identify the
different permissions that the software and its users will need to perform their actions, such as file read and write permissions,
network socket permissions, and so forth. Then explicitly allow those actions while denying all else [ REF-76 ]. Perform extensive
input validation and canonicalization to minimize the chances of introducing a separate vulnerability . This mitigation is much
more prone to error than dropping the privileges in the first place.
Phases: Operation; System Configuration
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Ensure that the software runs properly under the United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB) [ REF-199 ] or an
equivalent hardening configuration guide, which many organizations use to limit the attack surface and potential risk of deployed
software.
 Detection Methods
Manual AnalysisuserCurrLocation = locationClient.getLastLocation();
deriveStateFromCoords(userCurrLocation);3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 4/6This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process and perform a login. Look for library functions and system calls that indicate when privileges
are being raised or dropped. Look for accesses of resources that are restricted to normal users.
Note: Note that this technique is only useful for privilege issues related to system resources. It is not likely to detect application-
level business rules that are related to privileges, such as if a blog system allows a user to delete a blog entry without first
checking that the user has administrator privileges.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Compare binary / bytecode to application permission manifest
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host-based V ulnerability Scanners - Examine configuration for flaws, verifying that audit mechanisms work, ensure
host configuration meets certain predefined criteria
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 5/6Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Permission Manifest Analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 815 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
There is a close association with CWE-653 (Insuf ficient Separation of Privileges). CWE-653 is about providing separate components
for each privilege; CWE-250 is about ensuring that each component has the least amount of privileges possible.
Maintenance
CWE-271 , CWE-272 , and CWE-250 are all closely related and possibly overlapping. CWE-271 is probably better suited as a
category . Both CWE-272 and CWE-250 are in active use by the community . The "least privilege" phrase has multiple interpretations.
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Often Misused: Privilege Management
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER09-J Minimize privileges before deserializing from a privilege context
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-250: Execution with Unnecessary Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/250.html 6/6ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.05 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.08 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.08 RE(1)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .05.07 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .09.02 RE(4)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .09.03 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .09.04 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.1 RE 1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CCSC 3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.1
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-104 Cross Zone Scripting
CAPEC-470 Expanding Control over the Operating System from the Database
CAPEC-69 Target Programs with Elevated Privileges
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 7, "Running with Least Privilege" Page 207. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-199] NIST . "United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB)". < https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/United-States-
Government-Configuration-Baseline >. URL validated: 2023-03-28 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 16: Executing Code With
Too Much Privilege." Page 243. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Privilege
Vulnerabilities", Page 477. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names