3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-341: Predictable from Observable State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/341.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-341: Predictable from Observable State
Weakness ID: 341
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A number or object is predictable based on observations that the attacker can make about the state of the system or network, such as
time, process ID, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
PeerOf 339 Small Seed Space in PRNG
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
This weakness could be exploited by an attacker in a number ways depending on the context. If a
predictable number is used to generate IDs or keys that are used within protection mechanisms, then an
attacker could gain unauthorized access to the system. If predictable filenames are used for storing
sensitive information, then an attacker might gain access to the system and may be able to gain access to
the information in the file.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code generates a unique random identifier for a user's session.
Because the seed for the PRNG is always the user's ID, the session ID will always be the same. An attacker could thus predict any
user's session ID and potentially hijack the session.
This example also exhibits a Small Seed Space ( CWE-339 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function generateSessionID($userID){
srand($userID);
return rand();
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-341: Predictable from Observable State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/341.html 2/2CVE-2002-0389 Mail server stores private mail messages with predictable filenames in a world-executable directory ,
which allows local users to read private mailing list archives.
CVE-2001-1141 PRNG allows attackers to use the output of small PRNG requests to determine the internal state
information, which could be used by attackers to predict future pseudo-random numbers.
CVE-2000-0335 DNS resolver library uses predictable IDs, which allows a local attacker to spoof DNS query results.
CVE-2005-1636 MFV. predictable filename and insecure permissions allows file modification to execute SQL queries.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Increase the entropy used to seed a PRNG.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex
C ("Approved Random Number Generators").
Phase: Implementation
Use a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware devices with high entropy .
However , do not re-seed too frequently , or else the entropy source might block.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Predictable from Observable State
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
