3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-84: Improper Neutralization of Encoded URI Schemes in a Web Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/84.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-84: Improper Neutralization of Encoded URI Schemes in a W eb Page
Weakness ID: 84
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application improperly neutralizes user-controlled input for executable script disguised with URI encodings.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-0563 Cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability in Microsoft Outlook W eb Access (OW A) component in
Exchange Server 5.5 allows remote attackers to inject arbitrary web script or HTML via an email
message with an encoded javascript: URL ("javAsc
ript:") in an IMG tag.
CVE-2005-2276 Cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability in Novell Groupwise W ebAccess 6.5 before July 11, 2005
allows remote attackers to inject arbitrary web script or HTML via an e-mail message with an encoded
javascript URI (e.g. "jAvascript" in an IMG tag).
CVE-2005-0692 Encoded script within BBcode IMG tag.
CVE-2002-0117 Encoded "javascript" in IMG tag.
CVE-2002-0118 Encoded "javascript" in IMG tag.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Resolve all URIs to absolute or canonical representations before processing.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Carefully check each input parameter against a rigorous positive specification (allowlist) defining the specific characters and
format allowed. All input should be neutralized, not just parameters that the user is supposed to specify , but all data in the
request, including tag attributes, hidden fields, cookies, headers, the URL itself, and so forth. A common mistake that leads to
continuing XSS vulnerabilities is to validate only fields that are expected to be redisplayed by the site. W e often encounter data
from the request that is reflected by the application server or the application that the development team did not anticipate. Also,
a field that is not currently reflected may be used by a future developer . Therefore, validating ALL parts of the HTTP request is
recommended.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output EncodingAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-84: Improper Neutralization of Encoded URI Schemes in a Web Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/84.html 2/2Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
The problem of inconsistent output encodings often arises in web pages. If an encoding is not specified in an HTTP header , web
browsers often guess about which encoding is being used. This can open up the browser to subtle XSS attacks.
Phase: Implementation
With Struts, write all data from form beans with the bean's filter attribute set to true.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
To help mitigate XSS attacks against the user's session cookie, set the session cookie to be HttpOnly . In browsers that support
the HttpOnly feature (such as more recent versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox), this attribute can prevent the user's session
cookie from being accessible to malicious client-side scripts that use document.cookie. This is not a complete solution, since
HttpOnly is not supported by all browsers. More importantly , XMLHTTPRequest and other powerful browser technologies
provide read access to HTTP headers, including the Set-Cookie header in which the HttpOnly flag is set.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER XSS using Script V ia Encoded URI Schemes
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
