3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')
Weakness ID: 94
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs all or part of a code segment using externally-influenced input from an upstream component, but it does not
neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could modify the syntax or behavior of the intended code segment.
 Extended Description
When a product allows a user's input to contain code syntax, it might be possible for an attacker to craft the code in such a way that it
will alter the intended control flow of the product. Such an alteration could lead to arbitrary code execution.
Injection problems encompass a wide variety of issues -- all mitigated in very dif ferent ways. For this reason, the most ef fective way to
discuss these weaknesses is to note the distinct features which classify them as injection weaknesses. The most important issue to
note is that all injection problems share one thing in common -- i.e., they allow for the injection of control plane data into the user-
controlled data plane. This means that the execution of the process may be altered by sending code in through legitimate data
channels, using no other mechanism. While buf fer overflows, and many other flaws, involve the use of some further issue to gain
execution, injection problems need only for the data to be parsed. The most classic instantiations of this category of weakness are
SQL injection and format string vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 913 Improper Control of Dynamically-Managed Code Resources
ChildOf 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
ParentOf 95 Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection')
ParentOf 96 Improper Neutralization of Directives in Statically Saved Code ('Static Code Injection')
ParentOf 1336 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Used in a Template Engine
CanFollow 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Interpreted (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
In some cases, injectable code controls authentication; this may lead to a remote vulnerability .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Injected code can access resources that the attacker is directly prevented from accessing.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 2/6Code injection attacks can lead to loss of data integrity in nearly all cases as the control-plane
data injected is always incidental to data recall or writing. Additionally , code injection can often
result in the execution of arbitrary code.
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
Often the actions performed by injected control code are unlogged.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example attempts to write user messages to a message file and allow users to view them.
While the programmer intends for the MessageFile to only include data, an attacker can provide a message such as:
which will decode to the following:
The programmer thought they were just including the contents of a regular data file, but PHP parsed it and executed the code. Now ,
this code is executed any time people view messages.
Notice that XSS ( CWE-79 ) is also possible in this situation.
Example 2
edit-config.pl: This CGI script is used to modify settings in a configuration file.(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$MessageFile = "messages.out";
if ($\_GET["action"] == "NewMessage") {
$name = $\_GET["name"];
$message = $\_GET["message"];
$handle = fopen($MessageFile, "a+");
fwrite($handle, "**$name** says '$message'

---

\n");
fclose($handle);
echo "Message Saved!\n";
}
else if ($\_GET["action"] == "ViewMessages") {
include($MessageFile);
}
(attack code) 
name=h4x0r
message=%3C?php%20system(%22/bin/ls%20-l%22);?%3E
(attack code) 
php system("/bin/ls -l");?
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
use CGI qw(:standard);
sub config\_file\_add\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to add a field/key to a file goes here
}
sub config\_file\_set\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to set key to a particular file goes here
}
sub config\_file\_delete\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to delete key from a particular file goes here
}
sub handleConfigAction {
my ($fname, $action) = @\_;
my $key = param('key');
my $val = param('val');
# this is super-efficient code, especially if you have to invoke3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 3/6The script intends to take the 'action' parameter and invoke one of a variety of functions based on the value of that parameter -
config\_file\_add\_key(), config\_file\_set\_key(), or config\_file\_delete\_key(). It could set up a conditional to invoke each function
separately , but eval() is a powerful way of doing the same thing in fewer lines of code, especially when a large number of functions or
variables are involved. Unfortunately , in this case, the attacker can provide other values in the action parameter , such as:
This would produce the following string in handleConfigAction():
Any arbitrary Perl code could be added after the attacker has "closed of f" the construction of the original function call, in order to
prevent parsing errors from causing the malicious eval() to fail before the attacker's payload is activated. This particular manipulation
would fail after the system() call, because the "\_key(\$fname, \$key , \$val)" portion of the string would cause an error , but this is
irrelevant to the attack because the payload has already been activated.
Example 3
This simple script asks a user to supply a list of numbers as input and adds them together .
The eval() function can take the user-supplied list and convert it into a Python list object, therefore allowing the programmer to use list
comprehension methods to work with the data. However , if code is supplied to the eval() function, it will execute that code. For
example, a malicious user could supply the following string:
This would delete all the files in the current directory . For this reason, it is not recommended to use eval() with untrusted input.
A way to accomplish this without the use of eval() is to apply an integer conversion on the input within a try/except block. If the user-
supplied input is not numeric, this will raise a V alueError . By avoiding eval(), there is no opportunity for the input string to be executed
as code.# any one of dozens of different functions!
my $code = "config\_file\_$action\_key(\$fname, \$key, \$val);";
eval($code);
}
$configfile = "/home/cwe/config.txt";
print header;
if (defined(param('action'))) {
handleConfigAction($configfile, param('action'));
}
else {
print "No action specified!\n";
}
(attack code) 
add\_key(",","); system("/bin/ls");
(result) 
config\_file\_add\_key(",","); system("/bin/ls");
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def main():
sum = 0
numbers = eval(input("Enter a space-separated list of numbers: "))
for num in numbers:
sum = sum + num
print(f"Sum of {numbers} = {sum}")
main()
(attack code) 
\_\_import\_\_('subprocess').getoutput('rm -r \*')
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def main():
sum = 0
numbers = input("Enter a space-separated list of numbers: ").split(" ")
try:
for num in numbers:
sum = sum + int(num)
print(f"Sum of {numbers} = {sum}")
except ValueError:
print("Error: invalid input")
main()3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 4/6An alternative, commonly-cited mitigation for this kind of weakness is to use the ast.literal\_eval() function, since it is intentionally
designed to avoid executing code. However , an adversary could still cause excessive memory or stack consumption via deeply
nested structures [ REF-1372 ], so the python documentation discourages use of ast.literal\_eval() on untrusted data [ REF-1373 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-2054 Python compiler uses eval() to execute malicious strings as Python code.
CVE-2021-22204 Chain: regex in EXIF processor code does not correctly determine where a string ends ( CWE-625 ),
enabling eval injection ( CWE-95 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-8218 "Code injection" in VPN product, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2008-5071 Eval injection in PHP program.
CVE-2002-1750 Eval injection in Perl program.
CVE-2008-5305 Eval injection in Perl program using an ID that should only contain hyphens and numbers.
CVE-2002-1752 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2002-1753 Eval injection in Perl program.
CVE-2005-1527 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2005-2837 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2005-1921 MFV. code injection into PHP eval statement using nested constructs that should not be nested.
CVE-2005-2498 MFV. code injection into PHP eval statement using nested constructs that should not be nested.
CVE-2005-3302 Code injection into Python eval statement from a field in a formatted file.
CVE-2007-1253 Eval injection in Python program.
CVE-2001-1471 chain: Resultant eval injection. An invalid value prevents initialization of variables, which can be
modified by attacker and later injected into PHP eval statement.
CVE-2002-0495 Perl code directly injected into CGI library file from parameters to another CGI program.
CVE-2005-1876 Direct PHP code injection into supporting template file.
CVE-2005-1894 Direct code injection into PHP script that can be accessed by attacker .
CVE-2003-0395 PHP code from User-Agent HTTP header directly inserted into log file implemented as PHP script.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Refactor your program so that you do not have to dynamically generate code.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Run your code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which code can be executed by your product.
Examples include the Unix chroot jail and AppArmor . In general, managed code may provide some protection.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of your application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
To reduce the likelihood of code injection, use stringent allowlists that limit which constructs are allowed. If you are dynamically
constructing code that invokes a function, then verifying that the input is alphanumeric might be insuf ficient. An attacker might
still be able to reference a dangerous function that you did not intend to allow , such as system(), exec(), or exit().
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Phase: T esting
Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz
testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down, but it should not become
unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 5/6Run the code in an environment that performs automatic taint propagation and prevents any command execution that uses
tainted variables, such as Perl's "-T" switch. This will force the program to perform validation steps that remove the taint,
although you must be careful to correctly validate your inputs so that you do not accidentally mark dangerous inputs as untainted
(see CWE-183 and CWE-184 ).
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run the code in an environment that performs automatic taint propagation and prevents any command execution that uses
tainted variables, such as Perl's "-T" switch. This will force the program to perform validation steps that remove the taint,
although you must be careful to correctly validate your inputs so that you do not accidentally mark dangerous inputs as untainted
(see CWE-183 and CWE-184 ).
Phase: Implementation
For Python programs, it is frequently encouraged to use the ast.literal\_eval() function instead of eval, since it is intentionally
designed to avoid executing code. However , an adversary could still cause excessive memory or stack consumption via deeply
nested structures [ REF-1372 ], so the python documentation discourages use of ast.literal\_eval() on untrusted data [ REF-1373 ].
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER CODE Code Evaluation and Injection
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-242 Code Injection
CAPEC-35 Leverage Executable Code in Non-Executable Files
CAPEC-77 Manipulating User-Controlled V ariables
 References
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/94.html 6/6[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 3: W eb-Client Related
Vulnerabilities (XSS)." Page 63. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1372] "How ast.literal\_eval can cause memory exhaustion". Reddit. 2022-12-14.
. URL validated:
2023-11-03 .
[REF-1373] "ast - Abstract Syntax Trees". ast.literal\_eval(node\_or\_string). Python. 2023-11-02.
. URL validated: 2023-11-03 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-29
(CWE 4.12, 2023-06-29)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names

