3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-239: Failure to Handle Incomplete Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/239.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-239: Failure to Handle Incomplete Element
Weakness ID: 239
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle when a particular element is not completely specified.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 237 Improper Handling of Structural Elements
PeerOf 404 Improper Resource Shutdown or Release
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1532 HTTP GET without \r\n\r\n CRLF sequences causes product to wait indefinitely and prevents other
users from accessing it.
CVE-2003-0195 Partial request is not timed out.
CVE-2005-2526 MFV. CPU exhaustion in printer via partial printing request then early termination of connection.
CVE-2002-1906 CPU consumption by sending incomplete HTTP requests and leaving the connections open.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 993 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Input Handling
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-239: Failure to Handle Incomplete Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/239.html 2/2PLOVER Incomplete Element
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names