3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-641: Improper Restriction of Names for Files and Other Resources (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/641.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-641: Improper Restriction of Names for Files and Other Resources
Weakness ID: 641
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs the name of a file or other resource using input from an upstream component, but it does not restrict or
incorrectly restricts the resulting name.
 Extended Description
This may produce resultant weaknesses. For instance, if the names of these resources contain scripting characters, it is possible that
a script may get executed in the client's browser if the application ever displays the name of the resource on a dynamically generated
web page. Alternately , if the resources are consumed by some application parser , a specially crafted name can exploit some
vulnerability internal to the parser , potentially resulting in execution of arbitrary code on the server machine. The problems will vary
based on the context of usage of such malformed resource names and whether vulnerabilities are present in or assumptions are
made by the targeted technology that would make code execution possible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 99 Improper Control of Resource Identifiers ('Resource Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Execution of arbitrary code in the context of usage of the resources with dangerous names.
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Crash of the consumer code of these resources resulting in information leakage or denial of service.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not allow users to control names of resources used on the server side.
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-641: Improper Restriction of Names for Files and Other Resources (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/641.html 2/2Perform allowlist input validation at entry points and also before consuming the resources. Reject bad file names rather than
trying to cleanse them.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Make sure that technologies consuming the resources are not vulnerable (e.g. buf fer overflow , format string, etc.) in a way that
would allow code execution if the name of the resource is malformed.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
