3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-324: Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/324.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-324: Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date
Weakness ID: 324
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a cryptographic key or password past its expiration date, which diminishes its safety significantly by increasing the
timing window for cracking attacks against that key .
 Extended Description
While the expiration of keys does not necessarily ensure that they are compromised, it is a significant concern that keys which remain
in use for prolonged periods of time have a decreasing probability of integrity . For this reason, it is important to replace keys within a
period of time proportional to their strength.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
PeerOf 298 Improper V alidation of Certificate Expiration
PeerOf 262 Not Using Password Aging
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
MemberOf 320 Key Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
The cryptographic key in question may be compromised, providing a malicious user with a method
for authenticating as the victim.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to verify that a certificate is valid.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if ((X509\_V\_OK==foo) || (X509\_V\_ERRCERT\_NOT\_YET\_VALID==foo))
//do stuff
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-324: Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/324.html 2/2The code checks if the certificate is not yet valid, but it fails to check if a certificate is past its expiration date, thus treating expired
certificates as valid.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-33020 Picture Archiving and Communication System (P ACS) system for hospitals uses a cryptographic key or
password past its expiration date
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Adequate consideration should be put in to the user interface in order to notify users previous to the key's expiration, to explain
the importance of new key generation and to walk users through the process as painlessly as possible.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Using a key past its expiration date
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
}