3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1252: CPU Hardware Not Conﬁgured to Support Exclusivity of Write and Execute Operations (4…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1252.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1252: CPU Hardware Not Configured to Support Exclusivity of W rite and
Execute Operations
Weakness ID: 1252
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The CPU is not configured to provide hardware support for exclusivity of write and execute operations on memory . This allows an
attacker to execute data from all of memory .
 Extended Description
CPUs provide a special bit that supports exclusivity of write and execute operations. This bit is used to segregate areas of memory to
either mark them as code (instructions, which can be executed) or data (which should not be executed). In this way , if a user can write
to a region of memory , the user cannot execute from that region and vice versa. This exclusivity provided by special hardware bit is
leveraged by the operating system to protect executable space. While this bit is available in most modern processors by default, in
some CPUs the exclusivity is implemented via a memory-protection unit (MPU) and memory-management unit (MMU) in which
memory regions can be carved out with exact read, write, and execute permissions. However , if the CPU does not have an
MMU/MPU, then there is no write exclusivity . Without configuring exclusivity of operations via segregated areas of memory , an
attacker may be able to inject malicious code onto memory and later execute it.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1201 Core and Compute Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
MCS51 Microcontroller (based on 8051) does not have a special bit to support write exclusivity . It also does not have an MMU/MPU
support. The Cortex-M CPU has an optional MPU that supports up to 8 regions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1252: CPU Hardware Not Conﬁgured to Support Exclusivity of Write and Execute Operations (4…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1252.html 2/2If the MPU is not configured, then an attacker will be able to inject malicious data into memory and execute it.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Implement a dedicated bit that can be leveraged by the Operating System to mark data areas as non-executable. If such a bit is
not available in the CPU, implement MMU/MPU (memory management unit / memory protection unit).
Phase: Integration
If MMU/MPU are not available, then the firewalls need to be implemented in the SoC interconnect to mimic the write-exclusivity
operation.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 References
[REF-1076] ARM. "Cortex-R4 Manual". < https://developer .arm.com/Processors/Cortex-M4 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1077] Intel. "MCS 51 Microcontroller Family User's Manual". < http://web.mit.edu/6.115/www/document/8051.pdf >.
[REF-1078] ARM. "Memory Protection Unit (MPU)".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-13
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
The optional MPU is not configured.