3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/839.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison W ithout Minimum Check
Weakness ID: 839
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product checks a value to ensure that it is less than or equal to a maximum, but it does not also verify that the value is greater
than or equal to the minimum.
 Extended Description
Some products use signed integers or floats even when their values are only expected to be positive or 0. An input validation check
might assume that the value is positive, and only check for the maximum value. If the value is negative, but the code assumes that
the value is positive, this can produce an error . The error may have security consequences if the negative value is used for memory
allocation, array access, buf fer access, etc. Ultimately , the error could lead to a buf fer overflow or other type of memory corruption.
The use of a negative number in a positive-only context could have security implications for other types of resources. For example, a
shopping cart might check that the user is not requesting more than 10 items, but a request for -3 items could cause the application to
calculate a negative price and credit the attacker's account.
 Alternate T erms
Signed comparison: The "signed comparison" term is often used to describe when the product uses a signed variable and
checks it to ensure that it is less than a maximum value (typically a maximum buf fer size), but does not
verify that it is greater than 0.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1023 Incomplete Comparison with Missing Factors
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 124 Buffer Underwrite ('Buf fer Underflow')
CanPrecede 195 Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error
CanPrecede 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could modify the structure of the message or data being sent to the downstream
component, possibly injecting commands.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
in some contexts, a negative value could lead to resource consumption.
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory
If a negative value is used to access memory , buffers, or other indexable structures, it could access
memory outside the bounds of the buf fer.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code is intended to read an incoming packet from a socket and extract one or more headers.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/839.html 2/5The code performs a check to make sure that the packet does not contain too many headers. However , numHeaders is defined as a
signed int, so it could be negative. If the incoming packet specifies a value such as -3, then the malloc calculation will generate a
negative number (say , -300 if each header can be a maximum of 100 bytes). When this result is provided to malloc(), it is first
converted to a size\_t type. This conversion then produces a large value such as 4294966996, which may cause malloc() to fail or to
allocate an extremely large amount of memory ( CWE-195 ). With the appropriate negative numbers, an attacker could trick malloc()
into using a very small positive number , which then allocates a buf fer that is much smaller than expected, potentially leading to a
buffer overflow .
Example 2
The following code reads a maximum size and performs a sanity check on that size. It then performs a strncpy , assuming it will not
exceed the boundaries of the array . While the use of "short s" is forced in this particular example, short int's are frequently used within
real-world code, such as code that processes structured data.
This code first exhibits an example of CWE-839 , allowing "s" to be a negative number . When the negative short "s" is converted to an
unsigned integer , it becomes an extremely large positive integer . When this converted integer is used by strncpy() it will lead to a
buffer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
Example 3
In the following code, the method retrieves a value from an array at a specific array index location that is given as an input parameter
to the method(bad code) Example Language: C 
DataPacket \*packet;
int numHeaders;
PacketHeader \*headers;
sock=AcceptSocketConnection();
ReadPacket(packet, sock);
numHeaders =packet->headers;
if (numHeaders > 100) {
ExitError("too many headers!");
}
headers = malloc(numHeaders \* sizeof(PacketHeader);
ParsePacketHeaders(packet, headers);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int GetUntrustedInt () {
return(0x0000FFFF);
}
void main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char path[256];
char \*input;
int i;
short s;
unsigned int sz;
i = GetUntrustedInt();
s = i;
/\* s is -1 so it passes the safety check - CWE-697 \*/
if (s > 256) {
DiePainfully("go away!\n");
}
/\* s is sign-extended and saved in sz \*/
sz = s;
/\* output: i=65535, s=-1, sz=4294967295 - your mileage may vary \*/
printf("i=%d, s=%d, sz=%u\n", i, s, sz);
input = GetUserInput("Enter pathname:");
/\* strncpy interprets s as unsigned int, so it's treated as MAX\_INT
(CWE-195), enabling buffer overflow (CWE-119) \*/
strncpy(path, input, s);
path[255] = '\0'; /\* don't want CWE-170 \*/
printf("Path is: %s\n", path);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int getValueFromArray(int \*array, int len, int index) {
int value;
// check that the array index is less than the maximum
//lthfth3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/839.html 3/5However , this method only verifies that the given array index is less than the maximum length of the array but does not check for the
minimum value ( CWE-839 ). This will allow a negative value to be accepted as the input array index, which will result in a out of
bounds read ( CWE-125 ) and may allow access to sensitive memory . The input array index should be checked to verify that is within
the maximum and minimum range required for the array ( CWE-129 ). In this example the if statement should be modified to include a
minimum range check, as shown below .
Example 4
The following code shows a simple BankAccount class with deposit and withdraw methods.
The withdraw method includes a check to ensure that the withdrawal amount does not exceed the maximum limit allowed, however
the method does not check to ensure that the withdrawal amount is greater than a minimum value ( CWE-129 ). Performing a range
check on a value that does not include a minimum check can have significant security implications, in this case not including a
minimum range check can allow a negative value to be used which would cause the financial application using this class to deposit
money into the user account rather than withdrawing. In this example the if statement should the modified to include a minimum range
check, as shown below .// length of the array
if (index < len) {
// get the value at the specified index of the array
value = array[index];
}
// if array index is invalid then output error message
// and return value indicating error
else {
printf("Value is: %d\n", array[index]);
value = -1;
}
return value;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
// check that the array index is within the correct
// range of values for the array
if (index >= 0 && index < len) {
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class BankAccount {
public final int MAXIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT = 350;
// variable for bank account balance
private double accountBalance;
// constructor for BankAccount
public BankAccount() {
accountBalance = 0;
}
// method to deposit amount into BankAccount
public void deposit(double depositAmount) {...}
// method to withdraw amount from BankAccount
public void withdraw(double withdrawAmount) {
if (withdrawAmount < MAXIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT) {
double newBalance = accountBalance - withdrawAmount;
accountBalance = newBalance;
}
else {
System.err.println("Withdrawal amount exceeds the maximum limit allowed, please try again...");
...
}
}
// other methods for accessing the BankAccount object
...
}3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/839.html 4/5Note that this example does not protect against concurrent access to the BankAccount balance variable, see CWE-413 and CWE-
362.
While it is out of scope for this example, note that the use of doubles or floats in financial calculations may be subject to certain kinds
of attacks where attackers use rounding errors to steal money .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-1866 Chain: integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) causes a negative signed value, which later bypasses a maximum-
only check ( CWE-839 ), leading to heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
CVE-2009-1099 Chain: 16-bit counter can be interpreted as a negative value, compared to a 32-bit maximum value,
leading to buf fer under-write.
CVE-2011-0521 Chain: kernel's lack of a check for a negative value leads to memory corruption.
CVE-2010-3704 Chain: parser uses atoi() but does not check for a negative value, which can happen on some
platforms, leading to buf fer under-write.
CVE-2010-2530 Chain: Negative value stored in an int bypasses a size check and causes allocation of large amounts of
memory .
CVE-2009-3080 Chain: negative of fset value to IOCTL bypasses check for maximum index, then used as an array index
for buf fer under-read.
CVE-2008-6393 chain: file transfer client performs signed comparison, leading to integer overflow and heap-based
buffer overflow .
CVE-2008-4558 chain: negative ID in media player bypasses check for maximum index, then used as an array index for
buffer under-read.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
If the number to be used is always expected to be positive, change the variable type from signed to unsigned or size\_t.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
If the number to be used could have a negative value based on the specification (thus requiring a signed value), but the number
should only be positive to preserve code correctness, then include a check to ensure that the value is positive.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public class BankAccount {
public final int MINIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT = 0;
public final int MAXIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT = 350;
...
// method to withdraw amount from BankAccount
public void withdraw(double withdrawAmount) {
if (withdrawAmount < MAXIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT &&
withdrawAmount > MINIMUM\_WITHDRAWAL\_LIMIT) {
...3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-839: Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/839.html 5/5[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ype
Conversion V ulnerabilities" Page 246. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Comparisons",
Page 265. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-03-24
(CWE 1.12, 2011-03-30)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications