3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-674: Uncontrolled Recursion (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/674.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-674: Uncontrolled Recursion
Weakness ID: 674
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly control the amount of recursion that takes place, consuming excessive resources, such as allocated
memory or the program stack.
 Alternate T erms
Stack Exhaustion
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 834 Excessive Iteration
ParentOf 776 Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion')
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation The uncontrolled recursion is often due to an improper or missing conditional
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory)
Resources including CPU, memory , and stack memory could be rapidly consumed or exhausted,
eventually leading to an exit or crash.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
In some cases, an application's interpreter might kill a process or thread that appears to be
consuming too much resources, such as with PHP's memory\_limit setting. When the interpreter kills
the process/thread, it might report an error containing detailed information such as the application's
installation path.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example a mistake exists in the code where the exit condition contained in flg is never called. This results in the function calling
itself over and over again until the stack is exhausted.
Note that the only dif ference between the Good and Bad examples is that the recursion flag will change value and cause the recursive
call to return.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void do\_something\_recursive (int flg)
{
... // Do some real work here, but the value of flg is unmodified
if (flg) { do\_something\_recursive (flg); } // flg is never modified so it is always TRUE - this call will continue until the stack explodes
}
int flag = 1; // Set to TRUE
do\_something\_recursive (flag);3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-674: Uncontrolled Recursion (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/674.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-1285 Deeply nested arrays trigger stack exhaustion.
CVE-2007-3409 Self-referencing pointers create infinite loop and resultant stack exhaustion.
CVE-2016-10707 Javascript application accidentally changes input in a way that prevents a recursive call from detecting
an exit condition.
CVE-2016-3627 An attempt to recover a corrupted XML file infinite recursion protection counter was not always
incremented missing the exit condition.
CVE-2019-15118 USB-audio driver's descriptor code parsing allows unlimited recursion leading to stack exhaustion.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure an end condition will be reached under all logic conditions. The end condition may include testing against the depth of
recursion and exiting with an error if the recursion goes too deep. The complexity of the end condition contributes to the
effectiveness of this action.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Phase: Implementation
Increase the stack size.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: Increasing the stack size might only be a temporary measure, since the stack typically is still not very large, and it might
remain easy for attackers to cause an out-of-stack fault.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
CPU
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 985 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Consumption
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
(good code) Example Language: C 
void do\_something\_recursive (int flg)
{
... // Do some real work here
// Modify value of flg on done condition
if (flg) { do\_something\_recursive (flg); } // returns when flg changes to 0
}
int flag = 1; // Set to TRUE
do\_something\_recursive (flag);3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-674: Uncontrolled Recursion (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/674.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More Specific Denial of Service
Software Fault Patterns SFP13 Unrestricted Consumption
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-674
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-230 Serialized Data with Nested Payloads
CAPEC-231 Oversized Serialized Data Payloads
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-674.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications