3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
Weakness ID: 754
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not check or incorrectly checks for unusual or exceptional conditions that are not expected to occur frequently
during day to day operation of the product.
 Extended Description
The programmer may assume that certain events or conditions will never occur or do not need to be worried about, such as low
memory conditions, lack of access to resources due to restrictive permissions, or misbehaving clients or components. However ,
attackers may intentionally trigger these unusual conditions, thus violating the programmer's assumptions, possibly introducing
instability , incorrect behavior , or a vulnerability .
Note that this entry is not exclusively about the use of exceptions and exception handling, which are mechanisms for both checking
and handling unusual or unexpected conditions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 703 Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ParentOf 252 Unchecked Return V alue
ParentOf 253 Incorrect Check of Function Return V alue
ParentOf 273 Improper Check for Dropped Privileges
ParentOf 354 Improper V alidation of Integrity Check V alue
ParentOf 391 Unchecked Error Condition
ParentOf 394 Unexpected Status Code or Return V alue
ParentOf 476 NULL Pointer Dereference
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Many functions will return some value about the success of their actions. This will alert the program whether or not to handle any
errors caused by that function.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Unexpected State
The data which were produced as a result of a function call could be in a bad state upon return. If the
return value is not checked, then this bad data may be used in operations, possibly leading to a crash or
other unintended behaviors.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following code segment:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 2/7The programmer expects that when fgets() returns, buf will contain a null-terminated string of length 9 or less. But if an I/O error
occurs, fgets() will not null-terminate buf. Furthermore, if the end of the file is reached before any characters are read, fgets() returns
without writing anything to buf. In both of these situations, fgets() signals that something unusual has happened by returning NULL,
but in this code, the warning will not be noticed. The lack of a null terminator in buf can result in a buf fer overflow in the subsequent
call to strcpy().
Example 2
The following code does not check to see if memory allocation succeeded before attempting to use the pointer returned by malloc().
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "If my program runs out of memory , it will fail. It doesn't matter whether I handle the
error or simply allow the program to die with a segmentation fault when it tries to dereference the null pointer ." This argument ignores
three important considerations:
Depending upon the type and size of the application, it may be possible to free memory that is being used elsewhere so that
execution can continue.
It is impossible for the program to perform a graceful exit if required. If the program is performing an atomic operation, it can
leave the system in an inconsistent state.
The programmer has lost the opportunity to record diagnostic information. Did the call to malloc() fail because req\_size was
too large or because there were too many requests being handled at the same time? Or was it caused by a memory leak that
has built up over time? Without handling the error , there is no way to know .
Example 3
The following examples read a file into a byte array .
The code loops through a set of users, reading a private data file for each user . The programmer assumes that the files are always 1
kilobyte in size and therefore ignores the return value from Read(). If an attacker can create a smaller file, the program will recycle the
remainder of the data from the previous user and treat it as though it belongs to the attacker .
Example 4
The following code does not check to see if the string returned by getParameter() is null before calling the member function
compareT o(), potentially causing a NULL dereference.(bad code) Example Language: C 
char buf[10], cp\_buf[10];
fgets(buf, 10, stdin);
strcpy(cp\_buf, buf);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
buf = (char\*) malloc(req\_size);
strncpy(buf, xfer, req\_size);
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
char[] byteArray = new char[1024];
for (IEnumerator i=users.GetEnumerator(); i.MoveNext() ;i.Current()) {
String userName = (String) i.Current();
String pFileName = PFILE\_ROOT + "/" + userName;
StreamReader sr = new StreamReader(pFileName);
sr.Read(byteArray,0,1024);//the file is always 1k bytes
sr.Close();
processPFile(userName, byteArray);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
FileInputStream fis;
byte[] byteArray = new byte[1024];
for (Iterator i=users.iterator(); i.hasNext();) {
String userName = (String) i.next();
String pFileName = PFILE\_ROOT + "/" + userName;
FileInputStream fis = new FileInputStream(pFileName);
fis.read(byteArray); // the file is always 1k bytes
fis.close();
processPFile(userName, byteArray);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String itemName = request.getParameter(ITEM\_NAME);
if (itemName.compareTo(IMPORTANT\_ITEM) == 0) {
...
}
...3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 3/7The following code does not check to see if the string returned by the Item property is null before calling the member function
Equals(), potentially causing a NULL dereference.
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "I know the requested value will always exist because.... If it does not exist, the program
cannot perform the desired behavior so it doesn't matter whether I handle the error or simply allow the program to die dereferencing a
null value." But attackers are skilled at finding unexpected paths through programs, particularly when exceptions are involved.
Example 5
The following code shows a system property that is set to null and later dereferenced by a programmer who mistakenly assumes it will
always be defined.
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "I know the requested value will always exist because.... If it does not exist, the program
cannot perform the desired behavior so it doesn't matter whether I handle the error or simply allow the program to die dereferencing a
null value." But attackers are skilled at finding unexpected paths through programs, particularly when exceptions are involved.
Example 6
The following VB.NET code does not check to make sure that it has read 50 bytes from myfile.txt. This can cause
DoDangerousOperation() to operate on an unexpected value.
In .NET , it is not uncommon for programmers to misunderstand Read() and related methods that are part of many System.IO classes.
The stream and reader classes do not consider it to be unusual or exceptional if only a small amount of data becomes available.
These classes simply add the small amount of data to the return buf fer, and set the return value to the number of bytes or characters
read. There is no guarantee that the amount of data returned is equal to the amount of data requested.
Example 7
This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
If an attacker provides an address that appears to be well-formed, but the address does not resolve to a hostname, then the call to
gethostbyaddr() will return NULL. Since the code does not check the return value from gethostbyaddr ( CWE-252 ), a NULL pointer
dereference ( CWE-476 ) would then occur in the call to strcpy().
Note that this code is also vulnerable to a buf fer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
Example 8
In the following C/C++ example the method outputStringT oFile opens a file in the local filesystem and outputs a string to the file. The
input parameters output and filename contain the string to output to the file and the name of the file respectively .(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String itemName = request.Item(ITEM\_NAME);
if (itemName.Equals(IMPORTANT\_ITEM)) {
...
}
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
System.clearProperty("os.name");
...
String os = System.getProperty("os.name");
if (os.equalsIgnoreCase("Windows 95")) System.out.println("Not supported");
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
Dim MyFile As New FileStream("myfile.txt", FileMode.Open, FileAccess.Read, FileShare.Read)
Dim MyArray(50) As Byte
MyFile.Read(MyArray, 0, 50)
DoDangerousOperation(MyArray(20))
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
int outputStringToFile(char \*output, char \*filename) {3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 4/7However , this code does not check the return values of the methods openFileT oWrite, writeT oFile, closeFile to verify that the file was
properly opened and closed and that the string was successfully written to the file. The return values for these methods should be
checked to determine if the method was successful and allow for detection of errors or unexpected conditions as in the following
example.
Example 9
In the following Java example the method readFromFile uses a FileReader object to read the contents of a file. The FileReader object
is created using the File object readFile, the readFile object is initialized using the setInputFile method. The setInputFile method
should be called before calling the readFromFile method.
However , the readFromFile method does not check to see if the readFile object is null, i.e. has not been initialized, before creating the
FileReader object and reading from the input file. The readFromFile method should verify whether the readFile object is null and
output an error message and raise an exception if the readFile object is null, as in the following code.openFileToWrite(filename);
writeToFile(output);
closeFile(filename);
}
(good code) Example Language: C++ 
int outputStringToFile(char \*output, char \*filename) {
int isOutput = SUCCESS;
int isOpen = openFileToWrite(filename);
if (isOpen == FAIL) {
printf("Unable to open file %s", filename);
isOutput = FAIL;
}
else {
int isWrite = writeToFile(output);
if (isWrite == FAIL) {
printf("Unable to write to file %s", filename);
isOutput = FAIL;
}
int isClose = closeFile(filename);
if (isClose == FAIL)
isOutput = FAIL;
}
return isOutput;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private File readFile = null;
public void setInputFile(String inputFile) {
// create readFile File object from string containing name of file
}
public void readFromFile() {
try {
reader = new FileReader(readFile);
// read input file
} catch (FileNotFoundException ex) {...}
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
private File readFile = null;
public void setInputFile(String inputFile) {
// create readFile File object from string containing name of file
}
public void readFromFile() {
try {
if (readFile == null) {
System.err.println("Input file has not been set, call setInputFile method before calling openInputFile");
throw NullPointerException;
}
reader = new FileReader(readFile);
// read input file
}th(FilNtF dE ti ){}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 5/7
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2023-49286 Chain: function in web caching proxy does not correctly check a return value ( CWE-253 ) leading to a
reachable assertion ( CWE-617 )
CVE-2007-3798 Unchecked return value leads to resultant integer overflow and code execution.
CVE-2006-4447 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
CVE-2006-2916 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
Choose languages with features such as exception handling that force the programmer to anticipate unusual conditions that may
generate exceptions. Custom exceptions may need to be developed to handle unusual business-logic conditions. Be careful not
to pass sensitive exceptions back to the user ( CWE-209 , CWE-248 ).
Phase: Implementation
Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is expected.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Checking the return value of the function will typically be suf ficient, however beware of race conditions ( CWE-362 ) in a
concurrent environment.
Phase: Implementation
If using exception handling, catch and throw specific exceptions instead of overly-general exceptions ( CWE-396 , CWE-397 ).
Catch and handle exceptions as locally as possible so that exceptions do not propagate too far up the call stack ( CWE-705 ).
Avoid unchecked or uncaught exceptions where feasible ( CWE-248 ).
Effectiveness: High
Note: Using specific exceptions, and ensuring that exceptions are checked, helps programmers to anticipate and appropriately
handle many unusual events that could occur .
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience and no one else. The
messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic (which can confuse users) or being too detailed (which may
reveal more than intended). The messages should not reveal the methods that were used to determine the error . Attackers can
use detailed information to refine or optimize their original attack, thereby increasing their chances of success.
If errors must be captured in some detail, record them in log messages, but consider what could occur if the log messages can
be viewed by attackers. Highly sensitive information such as passwords should never be saved to log files.
Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip of f an attacker about internal state, such as whether a user account
exists or not.
Exposing additional information to a potential attacker in the context of an exceptional condition can help the attacker determine
what attack vectors are most likely to succeed beyond DoS.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Note: Performing extensive input validation does not help with handling unusual conditions, but it will minimize their occurrences
and will make it more dif ficult for attackers to trigger them.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If the program must fail, ensure that it fails gracefully (fails closed). There may be a temptation to simply let the program fail
poorly in cases such as low memory conditions, but an attacker may be able to assert control before the software has fully
exited. Alternately , an uncontrolled failure could cause cascading problems with other downstream components; for example, the} catch (FileNotFoundException ex) {...}
catch (NullPointerException ex) {...}
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 6/7program could send a signal to a downstream process so the process immediately knows that a problem has occurred and has
a better chance of recovery .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use system limits, which should help to prevent resource exhaustion. However , the product should still handle low resource
conditions since they may still occur .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis may be useful for detecting unusual conditions involving system resources or common programming
idioms, but not for violations of business rules.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the program under
low memory conditions, run with insuf ficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable
connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior . If you trigger an
unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate
unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 880 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 12 - Exceptions and Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1141 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 07. Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
Sometimes, when a return value can be used to indicate an error , an unchecked return value is a code-layer instance of a missing
application-layer check for exceptional conditions. However , return values are not always needed to communicate exceptional
conditions. For example, expiration of resources, values passed by reference, asynchronously modified data, sockets, etc. may
indicate exceptional conditions without the use of a return value.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP31-PL CWE More Abstract Do not suppress or ignore exceptions
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 3.7
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Program
Building Blocks" Page 341. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 1, "Exceptional
Conditions," Page 22. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-754: Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/754.html 7/7[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 11: Failure to Handle
Errors Correctly ." Page 183. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-622] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 15 - Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions". SANS Software
Security Institute. 2010-03-15. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-15-improper-check-for-unusual-or-exceptional-
conditions/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-03-03
(CWE 1.3, 2009-03-10)CWE Content Team MITRE
New entry for reorganization of CWE-703.
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names