3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1245: Improper Finite State Machines (FSMs) in Hardware Logic (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1245.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1245: Improper Finite State Machines (FSMs) in Hardware Logic
Weakness ID: 1245
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Faulty finite state machines (FSMs) in the hardware logic allow an attacker to put the system in an undefined state, to cause a denial
of service (DoS) or gain privileges on the victim's system.
 Extended Description
The functionality and security of the system heavily depend on the implementation of FSMs. FSMs can be used to indicate the current
security state of the system. Lots of secure data operations and data transfers rely on the state reported by the FSM. Faulty FSM
designs that do not account for all states, either through undefined states (left as don't cares) or through incorrect implementation,
might lead an attacker to drive the system into an unstable state from which the system cannot recover without a reset, thus causing a
DoS. Depending on what the FSM is used for , an attacker might also gain additional privileges to launch further attacks and
compromise the security guarantees.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 684 Incorrect Provision of Specified Functionality
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The Finite State Machine (FSM) shown in the "bad" code snippet below assigns the output ("out") based on the value of state, which
is determined based on the user provided input ("user\_input").About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module fsm\_1(out, user\_input, clk, rst\_n);
input [2:0] user\_input;
input clk, rst\_n;
output reg [2:0] out;
[10]tt3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1245: Improper Finite State Machines (FSMs) in Hardware Logic (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1245.html 2/3The case statement does not include a default to handle the scenario when the user provides inputs of 3'h6 and 3'h7. Those inputs
push the system to an undefined state and might cause a crash (denial of service) or any other unanticipated outcome.
Adding a default statement to handle undefined inputs mitigates this issue. This is shown in the "Good" code snippet below . The
default statement is in bold.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Define all possible states and handle all unused states through default statements. Ensure that system defaults to a secure
state.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-74 Manipulating State
 References
[REF-1060] Farimah Farahmandi and Prabhat Mishra. "FSM Anomaly Detection using Formal Analysis".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
reg [1:0] state;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n )
begin
if (!rst\_n)
state = 3'h0;
else
case (user\_input)
3'h0:
3'h1:
3'h2:
3'h3: state = 2'h3;
3'h4: state = 2'h2;
3'h5: state = 2'h1;
endcase
end
out <= {1'h1, state};
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
case (user\_input)
3'h0:
3'h1:
3'h2:
3'h3: state = 2'h3;
3'h4: state = 2'h2;
3'h5: state = 2'h1;
default: state = 2'h0;
endcase3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1245: Improper Finite State Machines (FSMs) in Hardware Logic (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1245.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Modifications