3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-637: Unnecessary Complexity in Protection Mechanism (Not Using 'Economy of Mechanism') (4…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/637.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-637: Unnecessary Complexity in Protection Mechanism (Not Using 'Economy
of Mechanism')
Weakness ID: 637
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a more complex mechanism than necessary , which could lead to resultant weaknesses when the mechanism is not
correctly understood, modeled, configured, implemented, or used.
 Extended Description
Security mechanisms should be as simple as possible. Complex security mechanisms may engender partial implementations and
compatibility problems, with resulting mismatches in assumptions and implemented security . A corollary of this principle is that data
specifications should be as simple as possible, because complex data specifications result in complex validation code. Complex tasks
and systems may also need to be guarded by complex security checks, so simple systems should be preferred.
 Alternate T erms
Unnecessary Complexity
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The IPSEC specification is complex, which resulted in bugs, partial implementations, and incompatibilities between vendors.
Example 2
HTTP Request Smuggling ( CWE-444 ) attacks are feasible because there are not stringent requirements for how illegal or inconsistent
HTTP headers should be handled. This can lead to inconsistent implementations in which a proxy or firewall interprets the same data
stream as a dif ferent set of requests than the end points in that stream.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-6067 Support for complex regular expressions leads to a resultant algorithmic complexity weakness ( CWE-
407).
CVE-2007-1552 Either a filename extension and a Content-T ype header could be used to infer the file type, but the
developer only checks the Content-T ype, enabling unrestricted file upload ( CWE-434 ).
CVE-2007-6479 In Apache environments, a "filename.php.gif" can be redirected to the PHP interpreter instead of being
sent as an image/gif directly to the user . Not knowing this, the developer only checks the last extension
of a submitted filename, enabling arbitrary code execution.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-637: Unnecessary Complexity in Protection Mechanism (Not Using 'Economy of Mechanism') (4…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/637.html 2/2CVE-2005-2148 The developer cleanses the $\_REQUEST superglobal array , but PHP also populates $\_GET , allowing
attackers to bypass the protection mechanism and conduct SQL injection attacks against code that
uses $\_GET .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Avoid complex security mechanisms when simpler ones would meet requirements. Avoid complex data models, and
unnecessarily complex operations. Adopt architectures that provide guarantees, simplify understanding through elegance and
abstraction, and that can be implemented similarly . Modularize, isolate and do not trust complex code, and apply other secure
programming principles on these modules (e.g., least privilege) to mitigate vulnerabilities.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-524] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Economy of Mechanism". 2005-09-13.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
