3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-336: Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/336.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-336: Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
Weakness ID: 336
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) uses the same seed each time the product is initialized.
 Extended Description
Given the deterministic nature of PRNGs, using the same seed for each initialization will lead to the same output in the same order . If
an attacker can guess (or knows) the seed, then the attacker may be able to determine the random numbers that will be produced
from the PRNG.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Other
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Other; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses a statistical PRNG to generate account IDs.
Because the program uses the same seed value for every invocation of the PRNG, its values are predictable, making the system
vulnerable to attack.
Example 2
This code attempts to generate a unique random identifier for a user's session.
Because the seed for the PRNG is always the user's ID, the session ID will always be the same. An attacker could thus predict any
user's session ID and potentially hijack the session.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private static final long SEED = 1234567890;
public int generateAccountID() {
Random random = new Random(SEED);
return random.nextInt();
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function generateSessionID($userID){
srand($userID);
return rand();
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-336: Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/336.html 2/3If the user IDs are generated sequentially , or otherwise restricted to a narrow range of values, then this example also exhibits a Small
Seed Space ( CWE-339 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-39218 SDK for JavaScript app builder for serverless code uses the same fixed seed for a PRNG, allowing
cryptography bypass
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not reuse PRNG seeds. Consider a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself as needed from a high quality pseudo-random
output, such as hardware devices.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems, or use the more recent
FIPS 140-3 [ REF-1192 ] if possible.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Same Seed in PRNG
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". Annex C, Approved Random Number Generators. 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-336: Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/336.html 3/3[REF-1192] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-3: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2019-03-22. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/3/final >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names