3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1322: Use of Blocking Code in Single-threaded, Non-blocking Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1322.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1322: Use of Blocking Code in Single-threaded, Non-blocking Context
Weakness ID: 1322
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a non-blocking model that relies on a single threaded process for features such as scalability , but it contains code
that can block when it is invoked.
 Extended Description
When an attacker can directly invoke the blocking code, or the blocking code can be af fected by environmental conditions that can be
influenced by an attacker , then this can lead to a denial of service by causing unexpected hang or freeze of the code. Examples of
blocking code might be an expensive computation or calling blocking library calls, such as those that perform exclusive file operations
or require a successful network operation.
Due to limitations in multi-thread models, single-threaded models are used to overcome the resource constraints that are caused by
using many threads. In such a model, all code should generally be non-blocking. If blocking code is called, then the event loop will
effectively be stopped, which can be undesirable or dangerous. Such models are used in Python asyncio, V ert.x, and Node.js, or
other custom event loop code.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 834 Excessive Iteration
CanPrecede 835 Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Infinite Loop')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
An unexpected call to blocking code can trigger an infinite loop, or a large loop that causes the software
to pause and wait indefinitely .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Generally speaking, blocking calls should be replaced with non-blocking alternatives that can be used asynchronously .
Expensive computations should be passed of f to worker threads, although the correct approach depends on the framework
being used.
Phase: Implementation
For expensive computations, consider breaking them up into multiple smaller computations. Refer to the documentation of the
framework being used for guidance.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1322: Use of Blocking Code in Single-threaded, Non-blocking Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1322.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-25 Forced Deadlock
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-25
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Joe Harvey
 Modifications