3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1311: Improper Translation of Security Attributes by Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1311.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1311: Improper T ranslation of Security Attributes by Fabric Bridge
Weakness ID: 1311
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The bridge incorrectly translates security attributes from either trusted to untrusted or from untrusted to trusted when converting from
one fabric protocol to another .
 Extended Description
A bridge allows IP blocks supporting dif ferent fabric protocols to be integrated into the system. Fabric end-points or interfaces usually
have dedicated signals to transport security attributes. For example, HPROT signals in AHB, AxPROT signals in AXI, and MReqInfo
and SRespInfo signals in OCP .
The values on these signals are used to indicate the security attributes of the transaction. These include the immutable hardware
identity of the controller initiating the transaction, privilege level, and type of transaction (e.g., read/write, cacheable/non-cacheable,
posted/non-posted).
A weakness can arise if the bridge IP block, which translates the signals from the protocol used in the IP block endpoint to the
protocol used by the central bus, does not properly translate the security attributes. As a result, the identity of the initiator could be
translated from untrusted to trusted or vice-versa. This could result in access-control bypass, privilege escalation, or denial of service.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism;
Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The bridge interfaces between OCP and AHB end points. OCP uses MReqInfo signal to indicate security attributes, whereas AHB
uses HPROT signal to indicate the security attributes. The width of MReqInfo can be customized as needed. In this example,
MReqInfo is 5-bits wide and carries the privilege level of the OCP controller .
The values 5'h11, 5'h10, 5'h0F , 5'h0D, 5'h0C, 5'h0B, 5'h09, 5'h08, 5'h04, and 5'h02 in MReqInfo indicate that the request is coming
from a privileged state of the OCP bus controller . Values 5'h1F , 5'h0E, and 5'h00 indicate untrusted, privilege state.
Though HPROT is a 5-bit signal, we only consider the lower , two bits in this example. HPROT values 2'b00 and 2'b10 are considered
trusted, and 2'b01 and 2'b11 are considered untrusted.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1311: Improper Translation of Security Attributes by Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1311.html 2/3The OCP2AHB bridge is expected to translate trusted identities on the controller side to trusted identities on the responder side.
Similarly , it is expected to translate untrusted identities on the controller side to untrusted identities on the responder side.
Logic in the case statement only checks for MReqInfo bits 4:2, i.e., hardware-identity bits 3:1. When ocp\_mreqinfo is 5'h1F or 5'h0E,
p0\_mreqinfo\_o\_temp[2] will be 1. As a result, untrusted IDs from OCP 5'h1F and 5'h0E get translated to trusted ahb\_hprot values
2'b00.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The translation must map signals in such a way that untrusted agents cannot map to trusted agents or vice-versa.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the translation maps signals in such a way that untrusted agents cannot map to trusted agents or vice-versa.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
CAPEC-233 Privilege Escalation
 Content History
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module ocp2ahb
(
ahb\_hprot,
ocp\_mreqinfo
);
output [1:0] ahb\_hprot; // output is 2 bit signal for AHB HPROT
input [4:0] ocp\_mreqinfo; // input is 5 bit signal from OCP MReqInfo
wire [6:0] p0\_mreqinfo\_o\_temp; // OCP signal that transmits hardware identity of bus controller
wire y;
reg [1:0] ahb\_hprot;
// hardware identity of bus controller is in bits 5:1 of p0\_mreqinfo\_o\_temp signal
assign p0\_mreqinfo\_o\_temp[6:0] = {1'b0, ocp\_mreqinfo[4:0], y};
always @\*
begin
case (p0\_mreqinfo\_o\_temp[4:2])
000: ahb\_hprot = 2'b11; // OCP MReqInfo to AHB HPROT mapping
001: ahb\_hprot = 2'b00;
010: ahb\_hprot = 2'b00;
011: ahb\_hprot = 2'b01;
100: ahb\_hprot = 2'b00;
101: ahb\_hprot = 2'b00;
110: ahb\_hprot = 2'b10;
111: ahb\_hprot = 2'b00;
endcase
end
endmodule3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1311: Improper Translation of Security Attributes by Fabric Bridge (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1311.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-24
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Manna Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-04-28 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
Corrections in the demonstrative example.
 Modifications