3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-695: Use of Low-Level Functionality (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/695.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-695: Use of Low-Level Functionality
Weakness ID: 695
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses low-level functionality that is explicitly prohibited by the framework or specification under which the product is
supposed to operate.
 Extended Description
The use of low-level functionality can violate the specification in unexpected ways that ef fectively disable built-in protection
mechanisms, introduce exploitable inconsistencies, or otherwise expose the functionality to attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
ParentOf 111 Direct Use of Unsafe JNI
ParentOf 245 J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Management of Connections
ParentOf 246 J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Sockets
ParentOf 383 J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Threads
ParentOf 574 EJB Bad Practices: Use of Synchronization Primitives
ParentOf 575 EJB Bad Practices: Use of AWT Swing
ParentOf 576 EJB Bad Practices: Use of Java I/O
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1228 API / Function Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code defines a class named Echo. The class declares one native method (defined below), which uses C to echo
commands entered on the console back to the user . The following C code defines the native method implemented in the Echo class:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
class Echo {
public native void runEcho();
static {
System.loadLibrary("echo");
}
public static void main(String[] args) {
new Echo().runEcho();
}
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-695: Use of Low-Level Functionality (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/695.html 2/3Because the example is implemented in Java, it may appear that it is immune to memory issues like buf fer overflow vulnerabilities.
Although Java does do a good job of making memory operations safe, this protection does not extend to vulnerabilities occurring in
source code written in other languages that are accessed using the Java Native Interface. Despite the memory protections of fered in
Java, the C code in this example is vulnerable to a buf fer overflow because it makes use of gets(), which does not check the length of
its input.
The Sun Java(TM) Tutorial provides the following description of JNI [See Reference]: The JNI framework lets your native method
utilize Java objects in the same way that Java code uses these objects. A native method can create Java objects, including arrays and
strings, and then inspect and use these objects to perform its tasks. A native method can also inspect and use objects created by
Java application code. A native method can even update Java objects that it created or that were passed to it, and these updated
objects are available to the Java application. Thus, both the native language side and the Java side of an application can create,
update, and access Java objects and then share these objects between them.
The vulnerability in the example above could easily be detected through a source code audit of the native method implementation.
This may not be practical or possible depending on the availability of the C source code and the way the project is built, but in many
cases it may suf fice. However , the ability to share objects between Java and native methods expands the potential risk to much more
insidious cases where improper data handling in Java may lead to unexpected vulnerabilities in native code or unsafe operations in
native code corrupt data structures in Java. V ulnerabilities in native code accessed through a Java application are typically exploited
in the same manner as they are in applications written in the native language. The only challenge to such an attack is for the attacker
to identify that the Java application uses native code to perform certain operations. This can be accomplished in a variety of ways,
including identifying specific behaviors that are often implemented with native code or by exploiting a system information exposure in
the Java application that reveals its use of JNI [See Reference].
Example 2
The following example opens a socket to connect to a remote server .
A Socket object is created directly within the Java servlet, which is a dangerous way to manage remote connections.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include "Echo.h"//the java class above compiled with javah
#include 
JNIEXPORT void JNICALL
Java\_Echo\_runEcho(JNIEnv \*env, jobject obj)
{
char buf[64];
gets(buf);
printf(buf);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
// Perform servlet tasks.
...
// Open a socket to a remote server (bad).
Socket sock = null;
try {
sock = new Socket(remoteHostname, 3000);
// Do something with the socket.
...
} catch (Exception e) {
...
}
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-695: Use of Low-Level Functionality (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/695.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-36 Using Unpublished Interfaces or Functionality
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-09-09
(CWE 1.0, 2008-09-09)CWE Content Team MITRE
Note: this date reflects when the entry was first published. Draft versions of this entry were provided to
members of the CWE community and modified between Draft 9 and 1.0.
 Modifications