3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1223: Race Condition for Write-Once Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1223.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1223: Race Condition for W rite-Once Attributes
Weakness ID: 1223
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A write-once register in hardware design is programmable by an untrusted software component earlier than the trusted software
component, resulting in a race condition issue.
 Extended Description
Integrated circuits and hardware IP software programmable controls and settings are commonly stored in register circuits. These
register contents have to be initialized at hardware reset to defined default values that are hard coded in the hardware description
language (HDL) code of the hardware unit. A common security protection method used to protect register settings from modification
by software is to make them write-once. This means the hardware implementation only allows writing to such registers once, and they
become read-only after having been written once by software. This is useful to allow initial boot software to configure systems settings
to secure values while blocking runtime software from modifying such hardware settings.
Implementation issues in hardware design of such controls can expose such registers to a race condition security flaw . For example,
consider a hardware design that has two dif ferent software/firmware modules executing in parallel. One module is trusted (module A)
and another is untrusted (module B). In this design it could be possible for Module B to send write cycles to the write-once register
before Module A. Since the field is write-once the programmed value from Module A will be ignored and the pre-empted value
programmed by Module B will be used by hardware.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can appear in designs that use register write-once attributes with two or more
software/firmware modules with varying levels of trust executing in parallel.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
System configuration cannot be programmed in a secure way .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
consider the example design module system verilog code shown below . register\_write\_once\_example module is an example of
register that has a write-once field defined. Bit 0 field captures the write\_once\_status value.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1223: Race Condition for Write-Once Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1223.html 2/3The first system component that sends a write cycle to this register can program the value. This could result in a race condition
security issue in the SoC design, if an untrusted agent is running in the system in parallel with the trusted component that is expected
to program the register .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
During hardware design all register write-once or sticky fields must be evaluated for proper configuration.
Phase: T esting
The testing phase should use automated tools to test that values are not reprogrammable and that write-once fields lock on
writing zeros.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
 Content History
module register\_write\_once\_example
(
input [15:0] Data\_in,
input Clk,
input ip\_resetn,
input global\_resetn,
input write,
output reg [15:0] Data\_out
);
reg Write\_once\_status;
always @(posedge Clk or negedge ip\_resetn)
if (~ip\_resetn)
begin
Data\_out <= 16'h0000;
Write\_once\_status <= 1'b0;
end
else if (write & ~Write\_once\_status)
begin
Data\_out <= Data\_in & 16'hFFFE; // Input data written to register after masking bit 0
Write\_once\_status <= 1'b1; // Write once status set after first write.
end
else if (~write)
begin
Data\_out[15:1] <= Data\_out[15:1];
Data\_out[0] <= Write\_once\_status;
end
endmodule
(good code) 
Trusted firmware or software trying to set the write-once field:
Must confirm the Write\_once\_status (bit 0) value is zero, before programming register. If another agent has programmed the
register before, then Write\_once\_status value will be one.
After writing to the register, the trusted software can issue a read to confirm that the valid setting has been programmed.3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1223: Race Condition for Write-Once Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1223.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-12-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications