3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-234: Failure to Handle Missing Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/234.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-234: Failure to Handle Missing Parameter
Weakness ID: 234
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
If too few arguments are sent to a function, the function will still pop the expected number of arguments from the stack. Potentially , a
variable number of arguments could be exhausted in a function as well.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 233 Improper Handling of Parameters
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
There is the potential for arbitrary code execution with privileges of the vulnerable program if
function parameter list is exhausted.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Potentially a program could fail if it needs more arguments then are available.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
foo\_funct(one, two);
void foo\_funct(int one, int two, int three) {
printf("1) %d\n2) %d\n3) %d\n", one, two, three);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void some\_function(int foo, ...) {
int a[3], i;
va\_list ap;
va\_start(ap, foo);
for (i = 0; i < sizeof(a) / sizeof(int); i++) a[i] = va\_arg(ap, int);
va\_end(ap);
}
int main(int argc, char \*argv[]) {
some\_function(17, 42);
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-234: Failure to Handle Missing Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/234.html 2/3This can be exploited to disclose information with no work whatsoever . In fact, each time this function is run, it will print out the next 4
bytes on the stack after the two numbers sent to it.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0276 Server earlier allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via an HTTP request with a
sequence of "%" characters and a missing Host field.
CVE-2002-1488 Chat client allows remote malicious IRC servers to cause a denial of service (crash) via a P ART
message with (1) a missing channel or (2) a channel that the user is not in.
CVE-2002-1169 Proxy allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via an HTTP request to helpout.exe
with a missing HTTP version numbers.
CVE-2000-0521 Web server allows disclosure of CGI source code via an HTTP request without the version number .
CVE-2001-0590 Application server allows a remote attacker to read the source code to arbitrary 'jsp' files via a
malformed URL request which does not end with an HTTP protocol specification.
CVE-2003-0239 Chat software allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via malformed GIF89a headers that
do not contain a GCT (Global Color Table) or an LCT (Local Color Table) after an Image Descriptor .
CVE-2002-1023 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via an HTTP GET request without a
URI.
CVE-2002-1236 CGI crashes when called without any arguments.
CVE-2003-0422 CGI crashes when called without any arguments.
CVE-2002-1531 Crash in HTTP request without a Content-Length field.
CVE-2002-1077 Crash in HTTP request without a Content-Length field.
CVE-2002-1358 Empty elements/strings in protocol test suite af fect many SSH2 servers/clients.
CVE-2003-0477 FTP server crashes in POR T command without an argument.
CVE-2002-0107 Resultant infoleak in web server via GET requests without HTTP/1.0 version string.
CVE-2002-0596 GET request with empty parameter leads to error message infoleak (path disclosure).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Build and Compilation
This issue can be simply combated with the use of proper build process.
Phase: Implementation
Forward declare all functions. This is the recommended solution. Properly forward declaration of all used functions will result in a
compiler error if too few arguments are sent to a function.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 993 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Input Handling
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reasons: Potential Deprecation, Multiple Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry could be deprecated in a future version of CWE.
Comments:
See maintenance notes.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry will be deprecated in a future version of CWE. The term "missing parameter" was used in both PLOVER and CLASP , with
completely dif ferent meanings. However , data from both taxonomies was merged into this entry . In PLOVER, it was meant to cover
malformed inputs that do not contain required parameters, such as a missing parameter in a CGI request. This entry's observed
examples and classification came from PLOVER. However , the description, demonstrative example, and other information are
derived from CLASP . They are related to an incorrect number of function arguments, which is already covered by CWE-685 .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Missing Parameter Error
CLASP Missing parameter
 Content History
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-234: Failure to Handle Missing Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/234.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names