3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-252: Unchecked Return V alue
Weakness ID: 252
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not check the return value from a method or function, which can prevent it from detecting unexpected states and
conditions.
 Extended Description
Two common programmer assumptions are "this function call can never fail" and "it doesn't matter if this function call fails". If an
attacker can force the function to fail or otherwise return a value that is not expected, then the subsequent program logic could lead to
a vulnerability , because the product is not in a state that the programmer assumes. For example, if the program calls a function to
drop privileges but does not check the return code to ensure that privileges were successfully dropped, then the program will continue
to operate with the higher privileges.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
ParentOf 690 Unchecked Return V alue to NULL Pointer Dereference
PeerOf 273 Improper Check for Dropped Privileges
CanPrecede 476 NULL Pointer Dereference
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Background Details
Many functions will return some value about the success of their actions. This will alert the program whether or not to handle any
errors caused by that function.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
An unexpected return value could place the system in a state that could lead to a crash or other
unintended behaviors.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following code segment:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 2/6The programmer expects that when fgets() returns, buf will contain a null-terminated string of length 9 or less. But if an I/O error
occurs, fgets() will not null-terminate buf. Furthermore, if the end of the file is reached before any characters are read, fgets() returns
without writing anything to buf. In both of these situations, fgets() signals that something unusual has happened by returning NULL,
but in this code, the warning will not be noticed. The lack of a null terminator in buf can result in a buf fer overflow in the subsequent
call to strcpy().
Example 2
In the following example, it is possible to request that memcpy move a much larger segment of memory than assumed:
If returnChunkSize() happens to encounter an error it will return -1. Notice that the return value is not checked before the memcpy
operation ( CWE-252 ), so -1 can be passed as the size argument to memcpy() ( CWE-805 ). Because memcpy() assumes that the
value is unsigned, it will be interpreted as MAXINT -1 (CWE-195 ), and therefore will copy far more memory than is likely available to
the destination buf fer (CWE-787 , CWE-788 ).
Example 3
The following code does not check to see if memory allocation succeeded before attempting to use the pointer returned by malloc().
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "If my program runs out of memory , it will fail. It doesn't matter whether I handle the
error or allow the program to die with a segmentation fault when it tries to dereference the null pointer ." This argument ignores three
important considerations:
Depending upon the type and size of the application, it may be possible to free memory that is being used elsewhere so that
execution can continue.
It is impossible for the program to perform a graceful exit if required. If the program is performing an atomic operation, it can
leave the system in an inconsistent state.
The programmer has lost the opportunity to record diagnostic information. Did the call to malloc() fail because req\_size was
too large or because there were too many requests being handled at the same time? Or was it caused by a memory leak that
has built up over time? Without handling the error , there is no way to know .
Example 4
The following examples read a file into a byte array .char buf[10], cp\_buf[10];
fgets(buf, 10, stdin);
strcpy(cp\_buf, buf);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int returnChunkSize(void \*) {
/\* if chunk info is valid, return the size of usable memory,
\* else, return -1 to indicate an error
\*/
...
}
int main() {
...
memcpy(destBuf, srcBuf, (returnChunkSize(destBuf)-1));
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
buf = (char\*) malloc(req\_size);
strncpy(buf, xfer, req\_size);
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
char[] byteArray = new char[1024];
for (IEnumerator i=users.GetEnumerator(); i.MoveNext() ;i.Current()) {
String userName = (String) i.Current();
String pFileName = PFILE\_ROOT + "/" + userName;
StreamReader sr = new StreamReader(pFileName);
sr.Read(byteArray,0,1024);//the file is always 1k bytes
sr.Close();
processPFile(userName, byteArray);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
FileInputStream fis;
byte[] byteArray = new byte[1024];
for (Iterator i=users.iterator(); i.hasNext();) {
String userName = (String) i.next();
String pFileName = PFILE\_ROOT + "/" + userName;
FilItSt fi FilItSt (FilN )3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 3/6The code loops through a set of users, reading a private data file for each user . The programmer assumes that the files are always 1
kilobyte in size and therefore ignores the return value from Read(). If an attacker can create a smaller file, the program will recycle the
remainder of the data from the previous user and treat it as though it belongs to the attacker .
Example 5
The following code does not check to see if the string returned by getParameter() is null before calling the member function
compareT o(), potentially causing a NULL dereference.
The following code does not check to see if the string returned by the Item property is null before calling the member function
Equals(), potentially causing a NULL dereference.
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "I know the requested value will always exist because.... If it does not exist, the program
cannot perform the desired behavior so it doesn't matter whether I handle the error or allow the program to die dereferencing a null
value." But attackers are skilled at finding unexpected paths through programs, particularly when exceptions are involved.
Example 6
The following code shows a system property that is set to null and later dereferenced by a programmer who mistakenly assumes it will
always be defined.
The traditional defense of this coding error is: "I know the requested value will always exist because.... If it does not exist, the program
cannot perform the desired behavior so it doesn't matter whether I handle the error or allow the program to die dereferencing a null
value." But attackers are skilled at finding unexpected paths through programs, particularly when exceptions are involved.
Example 7
The following VB.NET code does not check to make sure that it has read 50 bytes from myfile.txt. This can cause
DoDangerousOperation() to operate on an unexpected value.
In .NET , it is not uncommon for programmers to misunderstand Read() and related methods that are part of many System.IO classes.
The stream and reader classes do not consider it to be unusual or exceptional if only a small amount of data becomes available.
These classes simply add the small amount of data to the return buf fer, and set the return value to the number of bytes or characters
read. There is no guarantee that the amount of data returned is equal to the amount of data requested.
Example 8
It is not uncommon for Java programmers to misunderstand read() and related methods that are part of many java.io classes. Most
errors and unusual events in Java result in an exception being thrown. But the stream and reader classes do not consider it unusual
or exceptional if only a small amount of data becomes available. These classes simply add the small amount of data to the return
buffer, and set the return value to the number of bytes or characters read. There is no guarantee that the amount of data returned is
equal to the amount of data requested. This behavior makes it important for programmers to examine the return value from read() and
other IO methods to ensure that they receive the amount of data they expect.
Example 9FileInputStream fis = new FileInputStream(pFileName);
fis.read(byteArray); // the file is always 1k bytes
fis.close();
processPFile(userName, byteArray);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String itemName = request.getParameter(ITEM\_NAME);
if (itemName.compareTo(IMPORTANT\_ITEM) == 0) {
...
}
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String itemName = request.Item(ITEM\_NAME);
if (itemName.Equals(IMPORTANT\_ITEM)) {
...
}
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
System.clearProperty("os.name");
...
String os = System.getProperty("os.name");
if (os.equalsIgnoreCase("Windows 95")) System.out.println("Not supported");
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
Dim MyFile As New FileStream("myfile.txt", FileMode.Open, FileAccess.Read, FileShare.Read)
Dim MyArray(50) As Byte
MyFile.Read(MyArray, 0, 50)
DoDangerousOperation(MyArray(20))3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 4/6This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
If an attacker provides an address that appears to be well-formed, but the address does not resolve to a hostname, then the call to
gethostbyaddr() will return NULL. Since the code does not check the return value from gethostbyaddr ( CWE-252 ), a NULL pointer
dereference ( CWE-476 ) would then occur in the call to strcpy().
Note that this code is also vulnerable to a buf fer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
Example 10
The following function attempts to acquire a lock in order to perform operations on a shared resource.
However , the code does not check the value returned by pthread\_mutex\_lock() for errors. If pthread\_mutex\_lock() cannot acquire the
mutex for any reason, the function may introduce a race condition into the program and result in undefined behavior .
In order to avoid data races, correctly written programs must check the result of thread synchronization functions and appropriately
handle all errors, either by attempting to recover from them or reporting them to higher levels.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-17533 Chain: unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) of some functions for policy enforcement leads to
authorization bypass ( CWE-862 )
CVE-2020-6078 Chain: The return value of a function returning a pointer is not checked for success ( CWE-252 )
resulting in the later use of an uninitialized variable ( CWE-456 ) and a null pointer dereference ( CWE-
476)
CVE-2019-15900 Chain: sscanf() call is used to check if a username and group exists, but the return value of sscanf()
call is not checked ( CWE-252 ), causing an uninitialized variable to be checked ( CWE-457 ), returning
success to allow authorization bypass for executing a privileged ( CWE-863 ).
CVE-2007-3798 Unchecked return value leads to resultant integer overflow and code execution.
CVE-2006-4447 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
CVE-2006-2916 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
CVE-2008-5183 chain: unchecked return value can lead to NULL dereference
CVE-2010-0211 chain: unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) leads to free of invalid, uninitialized pointer ( CWE-824 ).(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
pthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
/\* access shared resource \*/
pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
int result;
result = pthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
if (0 != result)
return result;
/\* access shared resource \*/
return pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 5/6CVE-2017-6964 Linux-based device mapper encryption program does not check the return value of setuid and setgid
allowing attackers to execute code with unintended privileges.
CVE-2002-1372 Chain: Return values of file/socket operations are not checked ( CWE-252 ), allowing resultant
consumption of file descriptors ( CWE-772 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is expected.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Checking the return value of the function will typically be suf ficient, however beware of race conditions ( CWE-362 ) in a
concurrent environment.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that you account for all possible return values from the function.
Phase: Implementation
When designing a function, make sure you return a value or throw an exception in case of an error .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 847 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1136 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 02. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1167 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 12. Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Unchecked Return V alue
CLASP Ignored function return value
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-252: Unchecked Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/252.html 6/6OWASP Top Ten 2004 A7 CWE More Specific Improper Error Handling
CER T C Secure Coding ERR33-C Imprecise Detect and handle standard library errors
CER T C Secure Coding POS54-C Imprecise Detect and handle POSIX library errors
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)EXP00-J Do not ignore values returned by methods
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP32-PL Exact Do not ignore function return values
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-252 -
resource
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-252 -
data
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-252 -
resource
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Program
Building Blocks" Page 341. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 20, "Checking Returns" Page 624. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 11: Failure to Handle
Errors Correctly ." Page 183. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-252-data.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-252-
resource. 2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-252-
resource. 2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2010-04-30 Martin Sebor Cisco Systems, Inc.
Provided Demonstrative Example and suggested CERT reference
 Modifications