3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-416: Use After Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/416.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-416: Use After Free
Weakness ID: 416
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Referencing memory after it has been freed can cause a program to crash, use unexpected values, or execute code.
 Extended Description
The use of previously-freed memory can have any number of adverse consequences, ranging from the corruption of valid data to the
execution of arbitrary code, depending on the instantiation and timing of the flaw . The simplest way data corruption may occur
involves the system's reuse of the freed memory . Use-after-free errors have two common and sometimes overlapping causes:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances.
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for freeing the memory .
In this scenario, the memory in question is allocated to another pointer validly at some point after it has been freed. The original
pointer to the freed memory is used again and points to somewhere within the new allocation. As the data is changed, it corrupts the
validly used memory; this induces undefined behavior in the process.
If the newly allocated data happens to hold a class, in C++ for example, various function pointers may be scattered within the heap
data. If one of these function pointers is overwritten with an address to valid shellcode, execution of arbitrary code can be achieved.
 Alternate T erms
Dangling pointer
Use-After-Free
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 825 Expired Pointer Dereference
PeerOf 415 Double Free
CanFollow 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
CanFollow 1265 Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code V ia Nested Calls
CanPrecede 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
The use of previously freed memory may corrupt valid data, if the memory area in question has been
allocated and used properly elsewhere.
Availability Technical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or RestartAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-416: Use After Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/416.html 2/4If chunk consolidation occurs after the use of previously freed data, the process may crash when
invalid data is used as chunk information.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If malicious data is entered before chunk consolidation can take place, it may be possible to take
advantage of a write-what-where primitive to execute arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 2
The following code illustrates a use after free error:
When an error occurs, the pointer is immediately freed. However , this pointer is later incorrectly used in the logError function.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-20141 Chain: an operating system kernel has insuf ficent resource locking ( CWE-413 ) leading to a use after
free ( CWE-416 ).
CVE-2022-2621 Chain: two threads in a web browser use the same resource ( CWE-366 ), but one of those threads can
destroy the resource before the other has completed ( CWE-416 ).
CVE-2021-0920 Chain: mobile platform race condition ( CWE-362 ) leading to use-after-free ( CWE-416 ), as exploited in
the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-6819 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) leads to use-after-free ( CWE-416 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA
KEV.
CVE-2010-4168 Use-after-free triggered by closing a connection while data is still being transmitted.
CVE-2010-2941 Improper allocation for invalid data leads to use-after-free.
CVE-2010-2547 certificate with a large number of Subject Alternate Names not properly handled in realloc, leading to
use-after-free
CVE-2010-1772 Timers are not disabled when a related object is deleted
CVE-2010-1437 Access to a "dead" object that is being cleaned up
CVE-2010-1208 object is deleted even with a non-zero reference count, and later accessed
CVE-2010-0629 use-after-free involving request containing an invalid version number
CVE-2010-0378 unload of an object that is currently being accessed by other functionality
CVE-2010-0302 incorrectly tracking a reference count leads to use-after-free
CVE-2010-0249 use-after-free related to use of uninitialized memory
CVE-2010-0050 HTML document with incorrectly-nested tags(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
#define BUFSIZER1 512
#define BUFSIZER2 ((BUFSIZER1/2) - 8)
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char \*buf1R1;
char \*buf2R1;
char \*buf2R2;
char \*buf3R2;
buf1R1 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZER1);
buf2R1 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZER1);
free(buf2R1);
buf2R2 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZER2);
buf3R2 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZER2);
strncpy(buf2R1, argv[1], BUFSIZER1-1);
free(buf1R1);
free(buf2R2);
free(buf3R2);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* ptr = (char\*)malloc (SIZE);
if (err) {
abrt = 1;
free(ptr);
}
...
if (abrt) {
logError("operation aborted before commit", ptr);
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-416: Use After Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/416.html 3/4CVE-2009-3658 Use after free in ActiveX object by providing a malformed argument to a method
CVE-2009-3616 use-after-free by disconnecting during data transfer , or a message containing incorrect data types
CVE-2009-3553 disconnect during a large data transfer causes incorrect reference count, leading to use-after-free
CVE-2009-2416 use-after-free found by fuzzing
CVE-2009-1837 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) from improper handling of a page transition in web client while an
applet is loading ( CWE-368 ) leads to use after free ( CWE-416 )
CVE-2009-0749 realloc generates new buf fer and pointer , but previous pointer is still retained, leading to use after free
CVE-2010-3328 Use-after-free in web browser , probably resultant from not initializing memory .
CVE-2008-5038 use-after-free when one thread accessed memory that was freed by another thread
CVE-2008-0077 assignment of malformed values to certain properties triggers use after free
CVE-2006-4434 mail server does not properly handle a long header .
CVE-2010-2753 chain: integer overflow leads to use-after-free
CVE-2006-4997 freed pointer dereference
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Choose a language that provides automatic memory management.
Phase: Implementation
When freeing pointers, be sure to set them to NULL once they are freed. However , the utilization of multiple or complex data
structures may lower the usefulness of this strategy .
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 983 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Resource Use
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-416: Use After Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/416.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Use After Free
CLASP Using freed memory
CER T C Secure Coding MEM00-C Allocate and free memory in the same module, at the same level of
abstraction
CER T C Secure Coding MEM01-C Store a new value in pointers immediately after free()
CER T C Secure Coding MEM30-C Exact Do not access freed memory
Software Fault Patterns SFP15 Faulty Resource Use
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 8: C++ Catastrophes."
Page 143. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-06-28 Anonymous External Contributor
Suggested rephrase for extended description
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications