3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-484: Omitted Break Statement in Switch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/484.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-484: Omitted Break Statement in Switch
Weakness ID: 484
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product omits a break statement within a switch or similar construct, causing code associated with multiple conditions to execute.
This can cause problems when the programmer only intended to execute code associated with one condition.
 Extended Description
This can lead to critical code executing in situations where it should not.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 670 Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
This weakness can cause unintended logic to be executed and other unexpected application behavior .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In both of these examples, a message is printed based on the month passed into the function:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void printMessage(int month){
switch (month) {
case 1: print("January");
case 2: print("February");
case 3: print("March");
case 4: print("April");
case 5: print("May");
case 6: print("June");
 7it("Jl")3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-484: Omitted Break Statement in Switch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/484.html 2/3Both examples do not use a break statement after each case, which leads to unintended fall-through behavior . For example, calling
"printMessage(10)" will result in the text "OctoberNovemberDecember is a great month" being printed.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Omitting a break statement so that one may fall through is often indistinguishable from an error , and therefore should be
avoided. If you need to use fall-through capabilities, make sure that you have clearly documented this within the switch
statement, and ensure that you have examined all the logical possibilities.
Phase: Implementation
The functionality of omitting a break statement could be clarified with an if statement. This method is much safer .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Detection Methods
White Box
Omission of a break statement might be intentional, in order to support fallthrough. Automated detection methods might
therefore be erroneous. Semantic understanding of expected product behavior is required to interpret whether the code is
correct.
Black Box
Since this weakness is associated with a code construct, it would be indistinguishable from other errors that produce the same
behavior .
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
case 7: print("July");
case 8: print("August");
case 9: print("September");
case 10: print("October");
case 11: print("November");
case 12: print("December");
}
println(" is a great month");
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void printMessage(int month){
switch (month) {
case 1: printf("January");
case 2: printf("February");
case 3: printf("March");
case 4: printf("April");
case 5: printff("May");
case 6: printf("June");
case 7: printf("July");
case 8: printf("August");
case 9: printf("September");
case 10: printf("October");
case 11: printf("November");
case 12: printf("December");
}
printf(" is a great month");
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-484: Omitted Break Statement in Switch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/484.html 3/3MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Omitted break statement
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Switch
Statements", Page 337. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
