3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-549: Missing Password Field Masking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/549.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-549: Missing Password Field Masking
Weakness ID: 549
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not mask passwords during entry , increasing the potential for attackers to observe and capture passwords.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 522 Insuf ficiently Protected Credentials
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Requirements
Recommendations include requiring all password fields in your web application be masked to prevent other users from seeing
this information.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 995 SFP Secondary Cluster: Feature
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-549: Missing Password Field Masking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/549.html 2/2Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications