3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1422.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding
during T ransient Execution
Weakness ID: 1422
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A processor event or prediction may allow incorrect or stale data to be forwarded to transient operations, potentially exposing data
over a covert channel.
 Extended Description
Software may use a variety of techniques to preserve the confidentiality of private data that is accessible within the current processor
context. For example, the memory safety and type safety properties of some high-level programming languages help to prevent
software written in those languages from exposing private data. As a second example, software sandboxes may co-locate multiple
users' software within a single process. The processor's Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) may permit one user's software to access
another user's data (because the software shares the same address space), but the sandbox prevents these accesses by using
software techniques such as bounds checking.
If incorrect or stale data can be forwarded (for example, from a cache) to transient operations, then the operations' microarchitectural
side ef fects may correspond to the data. If an attacker can trigger these transient operations and observe their side ef fects through a
covert channel, then the attacker may be able to infer the data. For example, an attacker process may induce transient execution in a
victim process that causes the victim to inadvertently access and then expose its private data via a covert channel. In the software
sandbox example, an attacker sandbox may induce transient execution in its own code, allowing it to transiently access and expose
data in a victim sandbox that shares the same address space.
Consequently , weaknesses that arise from incorrect/stale data forwarding might violate users' expectations of software-based
memory safety and isolation techniques. If the data forwarding behavior is not properly documented by the hardware vendor , this
might violate the software vendor's expectation of how the hardware should behave.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can be introduced by data speculation techniques, or when the processor pipeline is
designed to check exception conditions concurrently with other operations. This weakness can also
persist after a CWE-1421 weakness has been mitigated. For example, suppose that a processor can
forward stale data from a shared microarchitectural buf fer to dependent transient operations, and
furthermore suppose that the processor has been patched to flush the buf fer on context switches. This
mitigates the CWE-1421 weakness, but the stale-data forwarding behavior may persist as a CWE-1422
weakness unless this behavior is also patched.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1422.html 2/5
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Faulting loads in a victim domain may trigger incorrect transient forwarding, which leaves secret-dependent traces in the
microarchitectural state. Consider this code sequence example from [ REF-1391 ].
A processor with this weakness will store the value of untrusted\_arg (which may be provided by an attacker) to the stack, which is
trusted memory . Additionally , this store operation will save this value in some microarchitectural buf fer, for example, the store buf fer.
In this code sequence, trusted\_ptr is dereferenced while the attacker forces a page fault. The faulting load causes the processor to
mis-speculate by forwarding untrusted\_arg as the (transient) load result. The processor then uses untrusted\_arg for the pointer
dereference. After the fault has been handled and the load has been re-issued with the correct argument, secret-dependent
information stored at the address of trusted\_ptr remains in microarchitectural state and can be extracted by an attacker using a
vulnerable code sequence.
Example 2
Some processors try to predict when a store will forward data to a subsequent load, even when the address of the store or the load is
not yet known. For example, on Intel processors this feature is called a Fast Store Forwarding Predictor [ REF-1392 ], and on AMD
processors the feature is called Predictive Store Forwarding [ REF-1393 ]. A misprediction can cause incorrect or stale data to be
forwarded from a store to a load, as illustrated in the following code snippet from [ REF-1393 ]:
In this example, assume that the parameter idx can only be 0 or 1, and assume that idx\_array initially contains all 0s. Observe that the
assignment to v in line 4 will be array[0], regardless of whether idx=0 or idx=1. Now suppose that an attacker repeatedly invokes fn
with idx=0 to train the store forwarding predictor to predict that the store in line 3 will forward the data 4096 to the load idx\_array[idx] in
line 4. Then, when the attacker invokes fn with idx=1 the predictor may cause idx\_array[idx] to transiently produce the incorrect value
4096, and therefore v will transiently be assigned the value array[4096], which otherwise would not have been accessible in line 4.
Although this toy example is benign (it doesn't transmit array[4096] over a covert channel), an attacker may be able to use similar
techniques to craft and train malicious code sequences to, for example, read data beyond a software sandbox boundary .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-0551 A fault, microcode assist, or abort may allow transient load operations to forward malicious stale data to
dependent operations executed by a victim, causing the victim to unintentionally access and potentially
expose its own data over a covert channel.
CVE-2020-8698 A fast store forwarding predictor may allow store operations to forward incorrect data to transient load
operations, potentially exposing data over a covert channel.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The hardware designer can attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies in specific covert
channels.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: Instructions or features that constrain transient execution or suppress its side ef fects may impact performance.
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers, system software vendors, or other agents may choose to restrict the ability of unprivileged software to
access to high-resolution timers that are commonly used to monitor covert channels.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: Disabling specific predictors or other hardware features may result in significant performance overhead.
Phase: Requirements
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void call\_victim(size\_t untrusted\_arg) {
\*arg\_copy = untrusted\_arg;
array[\*\*trusted\_ptr \* 4096];
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void fn(int idx) {
unsigned char v;
idx\_array[0] = 4096;
v = array[idx\_array[idx] \* (idx)];
}3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1422.html 3/5Processor designers may expose instructions or other architectural features that allow software to mitigate the ef fects of
transient execution, but without disabling predictors. These features may also help to limit opportunities for data exposure.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Instructions or features that constrain transient execution or suppress its side ef fects may impact performance.
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers may expose registers (for example, control registers or model-specific registers) that allow privileged
and/or user software to disable specific predictors or other hardware features that can cause confidential data to be exposed
during transient execution.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Disabling specific predictors or other hardware features may result in significant performance overhead.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques (including the use of serialization instructions) that are intended to reduce the number of instructions
that can be executed transiently after a processor event or misprediction.
Effectiveness: Incidental
Note:
Some transient execution weaknesses can be exploited even if a single instruction is executed transiently after a processor
event or mis-prediction. This mitigation strategy has many other pitfalls that prevent it from eliminating this weakness entirely .
For example, see [ REF-1389 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
Isolate sandboxes or managed runtimes in separate address spaces (separate processes).
Effectiveness: High
Note:
Process isolation is also an ef fective strategy to mitigate many other kinds of weaknesses.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Include serialization instructions (for example, LFENCE) that prevent processor events or mis-predictions prior to the
serialization instruction from causing transient execution after the serialization instruction. For some weaknesses, a serialization
instruction can also prevent a processor event or a mis-prediction from occurring after the serialization instruction (for example,
CVE-2018-3639 can allow a processor to predict that a load will not depend on an older store; a serialization instruction between
the store and the load may allow the store to update memory and prevent the mis-prediction from happening at all).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
When used to comprehensively mitigate a transient execution weakness, serialization instructions can introduce significant
performance overhead.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques that can mitigate the consequences of transient execution. For example, address masking can be used
in some circumstances to prevent out-of-bounds transient reads.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Address masking and related software mitigation techniques have been used to harden specific code sequences that could
potentially be exploited via transient execution. For example, the Linux kernel makes limited use of this technique to mitigate
bounds-check bypass [ REF-1390 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
If the weakness is exposed by a single instruction (or a small set of instructions), then the compiler (or JIT , etc.) can be
configured to prevent the af fected instruction(s) from being generated, and instead generate an alternate sequence of
instructions that is not af fected by the weakness.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique is only ef fective for software that is compiled with this mitigation.
Phase: Documentation
If a hardware feature can allow incorrect or stale data to be forwarded to transient operations, the hardware designer may opt to
disclose this behavior in architecture documentation. This documentation can inform users about potential consequences and
effective mitigations.
Effectiveness: High
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
A variety of automated static analysis tools can identify potentially exploitable code sequences in software. These tools may
perform the analysis on source code, on binary code, or on an intermediate code representation (for example, during3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1422.html 4/5compilation).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Automated static analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other
detection methods to improve coverage.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected in hardware by manually inspecting processor specifications. Features that exhibit this
weakness may include microarchitectural predictors, access control checks that occur out-of-order , or any other features that
can allow operations to execute without committing to architectural state.Hardware designers can also scrutinize aspects of the
instruction set architecture that have undefined behavior; these can become a focal point when applying other detection
methods.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Manual analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection
methods to improve coverage.
Automated Analysis
Software vendors can release tools that detect presence of known weaknesses on a processor . For example, some of these
tools can attempt to transiently execute a vulnerable code sequence and detect whether code successfully leaks data in a
manner consistent with the weakness under test. Alternatively , some hardware vendors provide enumeration for the presence of
a weakness (or lack of a weakness). These enumeration bits can be checked and reported by system software. For example,
Linux supports these checks for many commodity processors:
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep bugs | head -n 1
bugs : cpu\_meltdown spectre\_v1 spectre\_v2 spec\_store\_bypass l1tf mds swapgs taa itlb\_multihit srbds mmio\_stale\_data
retbleed
Effectiveness: High
Note: This method can be useful for detecting whether a processor if af fected by known weaknesses, but it may not be useful for
detecting unknown weaknesses.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities
Comments:
Use only when the weakness arises from forwarding of incorrect/stale data, and the data is not architecturally restricted (that is,
the forwarded data is accessible within the current processor context).
If a weakness arises from forwarding of incorrect/stale data that is not accessible within the current processor context, then CWE-
1421 may be more appropriate for the mapping task.
 References
[REF-1389] Alyssa Milburn, Ke Sun and Henrique Kawakami. "Y ou Cannot Always Win the Race: Analyzing the LFENCE/JMP
Mitigation for Branch Target Injection". 2022-03-08. < https://arxiv .org/abs/2203.04277 >. URL validated: 2024-02-22 .
[REF-1390] The kernel development community . "Speculation". 2020-08-16.
. URL validated: 2024-02-04 .
[REF-1391] Jo V an Bulck, Daniel Moghimi, Michael Schwarz, Moritz Lipp, Marina Minkin, Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom, Berk
Sunar , Daniel Gruss and Frank Piessens. "L VI : Hijacking Transient Execution through Microarchitectural Load V alue Injection".
2020-01-09. < https://lviattack.eu/lvi.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-04 .
[REF-1392] Intel Corporation. "Fast Store Forwarding Predictor". 2022-02-08.
. URL validated: 2024-02-04 .
[REF-1393] AMD. "Security Analysis Of AMD Predictive Store Forwarding". 2021-03.
. URL validated: 2024-02-04 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2023-09-19
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Scott D. Constable Intel Corporation
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1422: Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1422.html 5/5
 Submissions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)David Kaplan AMD
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Rafael Dossantos, Abraham Fernandez Rubio, Alric Althof f, Lyndon Fawcett Arm
Members of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Jason Oberg Cycuity
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Priya B. Iyer Intel Corporation
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Nicole Fern Riscure
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group