3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1336: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Used in a Template Engine (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1336.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1336: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Used in a T emplate Engine
Weakness ID: 1336
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a template engine to insert or process externally-influenced input, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes
special elements or syntax that can be interpreted as template expressions or other code directives when processed by the engine.
 Extended Description
Many web applications use template engines that allow developers to insert externally-influenced values into free text or messages in
order to generate a full web page, document, message, etc. Such engines include Twig, Jinja2, Pug, Java Server Pages, FreeMarker ,
Velocity , ColdFusion, Smarty , and many others - including PHP itself. Some CMS (Content Management Systems) also use
templates.
Template engines often have their own custom command or expression language. If an attacker can influence input into a template
before it is processed, then the attacker can invoke arbitrary expressions, i.e. perform injection attacks. For example, in some
template languages, an attacker could inject the expression "{{7\*7}}" and determine if the output returns "49" instead. The syntax
varies depending on the language.
In some cases, XSS-style attacks can work, which can obscure the root cause if the developer does not closely investigate the root
cause of the error .
Template engines can be used on the server or client, so both "sides" could be af fected by injection. The mechanisms of attack or the
affected technologies might be dif ferent, but the mistake is fundamentally the same.
 Alternate T erms
Server-Side T emplate Injection / SSTI: This term is used for injection into template engines being used by a server .
Client-Side T emplate Injection / CSTI: This term is used for injection into template engines being used by a client.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 94 Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')
PeerOf 917 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression Language Statement
('Expression Language Injection')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThe developer might choose a template engine that makes it easier for programmers to write vulnerable
code.
ImplementationThe programmer might not use engine's built-in sandboxes or other capabilities to escape or otherwise
prevent template injection from untrusted input.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Interpreted (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Client Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact LikelihoodAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1336: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements Used in a Template Engine (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1336.html 2/2IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-16783 server-side template injection in content management server
CVE-2020-9437 authentication / identity management product has client-side template injection
CVE-2020-12790 Server-Side Template Injection using a Twig template
CVE-2021-21244 devops platform allows SSTI
CVE-2020-4027 bypass of Server-Side Template Injection protection mechanism with macros in V elocity templates
CVE-2020-26282 web browser proxy server allows Java EL expressions from Server-Side Template Injection
CVE-2020-1961 SSTI involving mail templates and JEXL expressions
CVE-2019-19999 product does not use a "safe" setting for a FreeMarker configuration, allowing SSTI
CVE-2018-20465 product allows read of sensitive database username/password variables using server-side template
injection
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Choose a template engine that of fers a sandbox or restricted mode, or at least limits the power of any available expressions,
function calls, or commands.
Phase: Implementation
Use the template engine's sandbox or restricted mode, if available.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Since expression languages are often used in templating languages, there may be some overlap with CWE-917 (Expression
Language Injection). XSS ( CWE-79 ) is also co-located with template injection.
Maintenance
The interrelationships and dif ferences between CWE-917 and CWE-1336 need to be further clarified.
 References
[REF-1193] James Kettle. "Server-Side Template Injection". 2015-08-05. < https://portswigger .net/research/server-side-template-
injection >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1194] James Kettle. "Server-Side Template Injection: RCE For The Modern W eb App". 2015-12-27.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-07-19
(CWE 4.5, 2021-07-20)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
