3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1329: Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1329.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1329: Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable
Weakness ID: 1329
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains a component that cannot be updated or patched in order to remove vulnerabilities or significant bugs.
 Extended Description
If the component is discovered to contain a vulnerability or critical bug, but the issue cannot be fixed using an update or patch, then
the product's owner will not be able to protect against the issue. The only option might be replacement of the product, which could be
too financially or operationally expensive for the product owner . As a result, the inability to patch or update can leave the product open
to attacker exploitation or critical operation failures. This weakness can be especially dif ficult to manage when using ROM, firmware,
or similar components that traditionally have had limited or no update capabilities.
In industries such as healthcare, "legacy" devices can be operated for decades. As a US task force report [ REF-1197 ] notes, "the
inability to update or replace equipment has both large and small health care delivery organizations struggle with numerous
unsupported legacy systems that cannot easily be replaced (hardware, software, and operating systems) with large numbers of
vulnerabilities and few modern countermeasures."
While hardware can be prone to this weakness, software systems can also be af fected, such as when a third-party driver or library is
no longer actively maintained or supported but is still critical for the required functionality .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
ChildOf 1357 Reliance on Insuf ficiently Trustworthy Component
ParentOf 1277 Firmware Not Updateable
ParentOf 1310 Missing Ability to Patch ROM Code
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1208 Cross-Cutting Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
RequirementsRequirements development might not consider the importance of updates over the lifetime of the
product or might intentionally exclude this capability due to concerns such as expense or speed to
market.
Architecture and DesignLack of planning during architecture development and design, or external pressures such as speed to
market, could ignore the capability to update.
Architecture and DesignDesigners might omit capabilities for updating a component due to time pressures to release the
product or assumptions about the stability of the component.
Implementation The weakness can appear through oversight during implementation.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1329: Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1329.html 2/4
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
Authentication
Authorization
OtherTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Quality Degradation; Reduce Maintainability
If an attacker can identify an exploitable vulnerability in one product that has no means of patching,
the attack may be used against all af fected versions of that product.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A refrigerator has an Internet interface for the of ficial purpose of alerting the manufacturer when that refrigerator detects a fault.
Because the device is attached to the Internet, the refrigerator is a target for hackers who may wish to use the device other potentially
more nefarious purposes.
Example 2
A System-on-Chip (SOC) implements a Root-of-T rust (RoT) in ROM to boot secure code. However , at times this ROM code might
have security vulnerabilities and need to be patched. Since ROM is immutable, it can be impossible to patch.
ROM does not have built-in application-programming interfaces (APIs) to patch if the code is vulnerable. Implement mechanisms to
patch the vulnerable ROM code.
Example 3
The example code is taken from the JT AG module of the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21. JT AG is protected with a
password checker . Access to JT AG operations will be denied unless the correct password is provided by the user . This user-provided
password is first sent to the HMAC module where it is hashed with a secret crypto key . This user password hash (pass\_hash) is then
compared with the hash of the correct password (exp\_hash). If they match, JT AG will then be unlocked.
However , the SoC's crypto key is hardcoded into the design and cannot be updated [ REF-1387 ]. Therefore, if the key is leaked
somehow , there is no way to reprovision the key without having the device replaced.
To fix this issue, a local register should be used (hmac\_key\_reg) to store the crypto key . If designers need to update the key , they can
upload the new key through an input port (hmac\_key\_i) to the local register by enabling the patching signal (hmac\_patch\_en) [ REF-
1388 ].
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The refrigerator has no means of patching and is hacked becoming a spewer of email spam.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The device automatically patches itself and provides considerable more protection against being hacked.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module dmi\_jtag(...)(...);
...
PassChkValid: begin
if(hashValid) begin
if(exp\_hash == pass\_hash) begin
pass\_check = 1'b1;
end else begin
pass\_check = 1'b0;
end
state\_d = Idle;
end else begin
state\_d = PassChkValid;
end
end
...
hmac hmac(
...
.key\_i(256'h24e6fa2254c2ff632a41b...),
...
);
...
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module dmi\_jtag(...
) (
input logic [255:0] hmac\_key\_i,
input logic hmac\_patch\_en,
...
[2550]h k3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1329: Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1329.html 3/4
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-9054 Chain: network-attached storage (NAS) device has a critical OS command injection ( CWE-78 )
vulnerability that is actively exploited to place IoT devices into a botnet, but some products are "end-of-
support" and cannot be patched ( CWE-1277 ). [REF-1097 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Specify requirements that each component should be updateable, including ROM, firmware, etc.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design the product to allow for updating of its components. Include the external infrastructure that might be necessary to support
updates, such as distribution servers.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
With hardware, support patches that can be programmed in-field or during manufacturing through hardware fuses. This feature
can be used for limited patching of devices after shipping, or for the next batch of silicon devices manufactured, without
changing the full device ROM.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Some parts of the hardware initialization or signature verification done to authenticate patches will always be "not
patchable." Hardware-fuse-based patches will also have limitations in terms of size and the number of patches that can be
supported.
Phase: Implementation
Implement the necessary functionality to allow each component to be updated.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Check the consumer or maintainer documentation, the architecture/design documentation, or the original requirements to ensure
that the documentation includes details for how to update the firmware.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
reg [255:0] hmac\_key\_reg;
...
);
...
always\_ff @(posedge tck\_i or negedge trst\_ni) begin
...
if (hmac\_patch\_en)
hmac\_key\_reg <= hmac\_key\_i;
...
end
...
hmac hmac(
...
.key\_i(hmac\_key\_reg),
...
);
...
endmodule3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1329: Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1329.html 4/4Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1197] Health Care Industry Cybersecurity Task Force. "Report on Improving Cybersecurity in the Health Care Industry".
Executive Summary . 2017-06. < https://www .phe.gov/Preparedness/planning/CyberTF/Documents/report2017.pdf >.
[REF-1097] Brian Krebs. "Zyxel Flaw Powers New Mirai IoT Botnet Strain". 2020-03-20.
.
[REF-1387] "dmi\_jtag.sv line 324". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/main/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L324C9-L324C87 >. URL validated:
2024-01-16 .
[REF-1388] "Fix for dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/commit/c94ce5f9487a41c77ede0bbc8daf4da66c39f42a >. URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-12-03
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications