3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/266.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment
Weakness ID: 266
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product incorrectly assigns a privilege to a particular actor , creating an unintended sphere of control for that actor .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
ParentOf 9 J2EE Misconfiguration: W eak Access Permissions for EJB Methods
ParentOf 520 .NET Misconfiguration: Use of Impersonation
ParentOf 556 ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Use of Identity Impersonation
ParentOf 1022 Use of W eb Link to Untrusted Target with window .opener Access
CanAlsoBe 286 Incorrect User Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
A user can access restricted functionality and/or sensitive information that may include
administrative functionality and user accounts.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 2
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
seteuid(0);
/\* do some stuff \*/
seteuid(getuid());
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
AccessController.doPrivileged(new PrivilegedAction() {
public Object run() {
// privileged code goes here, for example:
System.loadLibrary("awt");
t ll3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/266.html 2/3Example 3
This application sends a special intent with a flag that allows the receiving application to read a data file for backup purposes.
Any malicious application can register to receive this intent. Because of the FLAG\_GRANT\_READ\_URI\_PERMISSION included with
the intent, the malicious receiver code can read the user's data.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1193 untrusted user placed in unix "wheel" group
CVE-2005-2741 Product allows users to grant themselves certain rights that can be used to escalate privileges.
CVE-2005-2496 Product uses group ID of a user instead of the group, causing it to run with dif ferent privileges. This is
resultant from some other unknown issue.
CVE-2004-0274 Product mistakenly assigns a particular status to an entity , leading to increased privileges.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1149 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 15. Platform Security (SEC)
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
return null;
// nothing to return
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Intent intent = new Intent();
intent.setAction("com.example.BackupUserData");
intent.setData(file\_uri);
intent.addFlags(FLAG\_GRANT\_READ\_URI\_PERMISSION);
sendBroadcast(intent);
(attack code) Example Language: Java 
public class CallReceiver extends BroadcastReceiver {
@Override
public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {
Uri userData = intent.getData();
stealUserData(userData);
}
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-266: Incorrect Privilege Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/266.html 3/3Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Incorrect Privilege Assignment
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC00-J Do not allow privileged blocks to leak sensitive information across a trust
boundary
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC01-J Do not allow tainted variables in privileged blocks
 References
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications