3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-331: Insuﬃcient Entropy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/331.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-331: Insufficient Entropy
Weakness ID: 331
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an algorithm or scheme that produces insuf ficient entropy , leaving patterns or clusters of values that are more likely
to occur than others.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
ParentOf 332 Insuf ficient Entropy in PRNG
ParentOf 333 Improper Handling of Insuf ficient Entropy in TRNG
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
An attacker could guess the random numbers generated and could gain unauthorized access to a
system if the random numbers are used for authentication and authorization.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code generates a unique random identifier for a user's session.
Because the seed for the PRNG is always the user's ID, the session ID will always be the same. An attacker could thus predict any
user's session ID and potentially hijack the session.
This example also exhibits a Small Seed Space ( CWE-339 ).
Example 2
The following code uses a statistical PRNG to create a URL for a receipt that remains active for some period of time after a purchase.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function generateSessionID($userID){
srand($userID);
return rand();
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-331: Insuﬃcient Entropy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/331.html 2/3This code uses the Random.nextInt() function to generate "unique" identifiers for the receipt pages it generates. Because
Random.nextInt() is a statistical PRNG, it is easy for an attacker to guess the strings it generates. Although the underlying design of
the receipt system is also faulty , it would be more secure if it used a random number generator that did not produce predictable
receipt identifiers, such as a cryptographic PRNG.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0950 Insuf ficiently random data used to generate session tokens using C rand(). Also, for certificate/key
generation, uses a source that does not block when entropy is low .
CVE-2008-2108 Chain: insuf ficient precision ( CWE-1339 ) in random-number generator causes some zero bits to be
reliably generated, reducing the amount of entropy ( CWE-331 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Determine the necessary entropy to adequately provide for randomness and predictability . This can be achieved by increasing
the number of bits of objects such as keys and seeds.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1170 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 48. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Insuf ficient Entropy
WASC 11 Brute Force
CER T C Secure Coding MSC32-C Exact Properly seed pseudorandom number generators
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-59 Session Credential Falsification through Prediction
 References
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
 Content History
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String GenerateReceiptURL(String baseUrl) {
Random ranGen = new Random();
ranGen.setSeed((new Date()).getTime());
return(baseUrl + ranGen.nextInt(400000000) + ".html");
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-331: Insuﬃcient Entropy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/331.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications