3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-472: External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/472.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-472: External Control of Assumed-Immutable W eb Parameter
Weakness ID: 472
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application does not suf ficiently verify inputs that are assumed to be immutable but are actually externally controllable, such
as hidden form fields.
 Extended Description
If a web product does not properly protect assumed-immutable values from modification in hidden form fields, parameters, cookies, or
URLs, this can lead to modification of critical data. W eb applications often mistakenly make the assumption that data passed to the
client in hidden fields or cookies is not susceptible to tampering. Improper validation of data that are user-controllable can lead to the
application processing incorrect, and often malicious, input.
For example, custom cookies commonly store session data or persistent data across sessions. This kind of session data is normally
involved in security related decisions on the server side, such as user authentication and access control. Thus, the cookies might
contain sensitive data such as user credentials and privileges. This is a dangerous practice, as it can often lead to improper reliance
on the value of the client-provided cookie by the server side application.
 Alternate T erms
Assumed-Immutable Parameter T ampering
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
ChildOf 642 External Control of Critical State Data
CanFollow 656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation OMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
Without appropriate protection mechanisms, the client can easily tamper with cookies and similar web
data. Reliance on the cookies without detailed validation can lead to problems such as SQL injection. If you
use cookie values for security related decisions on the server side, manipulating the cookies might lead to
violations of security policies such as authentication bypassing, user impersonation and privilege
escalation. In addition, storing sensitive data in the cookie without appropriate protection can also lead to
disclosure of sensitive user data, especially data stored in persistent cookies.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a web application uses the value of a hidden form field (accountID) without having done any input validation because
it was assumed to be immutable.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-472: External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/472.html 2/3Example 2
Hidden fields should not be trusted as secure parameters.
An attacker can intercept and alter hidden fields in a post to the server as easily as user input fields. An attacker can simply parse the
HTML for the substring:
or even just "hidden". Hidden field values displayed later in the session, such as on the following page, can open a site up to cross-
site scripting attacks.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0108 Forum product allows spoofed messages of other users via hidden form fields for name and e-mail
address.
CVE-2000-0253 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0254 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0926 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0101 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0102 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0758 Allows admin access by modifying value of form field.
CVE-2002-1880 Read messages by modifying message ID parameter .
CVE-2000-1234 Send email to arbitrary users by modifying email parameter .
CVE-2005-1652 Authentication bypass by setting a parameter .
CVE-2005-1784 Product does not check authorization for configuration change admin script, leading to password theft
via modified e-mail address field.
CVE-2005-2314 Logic error leads to password disclosure.
CVE-2005-1682 Modification of message number parameter allows attackers to read other people's messages.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 715 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object Reference
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String accountID = request.getParameter("accountID");
User user = getUserFromID(Long.parseLong(accountID));
(bad code) Example Language: HTML 
<input type="hidden"3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-472: External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/472.html 3/3MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is a primary weakness for many other weaknesses and functional consequences, including XSS, SQL injection, path disclosure,
and file inclusion.
Theoretical
This is a technology-specific MAID problem.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Web Parameter Tampering
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A4 CWE More Specific Insecure Direct Object Reference
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A1 CWE More Specific Unvalidated Input
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-146 XML Schema Poisoning
CAPEC-226 Session Credential Falsification through Manipulation
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
CAPEC-39 Manipulating Opaque Client-based Data Tokens
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 4: Use of Magic URLs,
Predictable Cookies, and Hidden Form Fields." Page 75. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 17, "Embedding
State in HTML and URLs", Page 1032. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
