3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-333: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Entropy in TRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/333.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-333: Improper Handling of Insufficient Entropy in TRNG
Weakness ID: 333
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
True random number generators (TRNG) generally have a limited source of entropy and therefore can fail or block.
 Extended Description
The rate at which true random numbers can be generated is limited. It is important that one uses them only when they are needed for
security .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 331 Insuf ficient Entropy
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
A program may crash or block if it runs out of random numbers.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code uses a TRNG to generate a unique session id for new connections to a server:
This code does not attempt to limit the number of new connections or make sure the TRNG can successfully generate a new random
number . An attacker may be able to create many new connections and exhaust the entropy of the TRNG. The TRNG may then block
and cause the program to crash or hang.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Rather than failing on a lack of random numbers, it is often preferable to wait for more numbers to be created.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
while (1){
if (haveNewConnection()){
if (hwRandom()){
int sessionID = hwRandom();
createNewConnection(sessionID);
} } }3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-333: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Entropy in TRNG (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/333.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure of TRNG
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
