3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1320: Improper Protection for Outbound Error Messages and Alert Signals (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1320.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1320: Improper Protection for Outbound Error Messages and Alert Signals
Weakness ID: 1320
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Untrusted agents can disable alerts about signal conditions exceeding limits or the response mechanism that handles such alerts.
 Extended Description
Hardware sensors are used to detect whether a device is operating within design limits. The threshold values for these limits are set
by hardware fuses or trusted software such as a BIOS. Modification of these limits may be protected by hardware mechanisms.
When device sensors detect out of bound conditions, alert signals may be generated for remedial action, which may take the form of
device shutdown or throttling.
Warning signals that are not properly secured may be disabled or used to generate spurious alerts, causing degraded performance or
denial-of-service (DoS). These alerts may be masked by untrusted software. Examples of these alerts involve thermal and power
sensor alerts.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Power Management Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Test/Debug Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Sensor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Instability; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Reduce Reliability; Unexpected StateHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1320: Improper Protection for Outbound Error Messages and Alert Signals (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1320.html 2/2Consider a platform design where a Digital-Thermal Sensor (DTS) is used to monitor temperature and compare that output against a
threshold value. If the temperature output equals or exceeds the threshold value, the DTS unit sends an alert signal to the processor .
The processor , upon getting the alert, input triggers system shutdown. The alert signal is handled as a General-Purpose-I/O (GPIO)
pin in input mode.
Reprogramming the state of the GPIO pin allows malicious software to trigger spurious alerts or to set the alert pin to a zero value so
that thermal sensor alerts are not received by the processor .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Alert signals generated by critical events should be protected from access by untrusted agents. Only hardware or trusted
firmware modules should be able to alter the alert configuration.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-29
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Hareesh Khattri, Arun Kanuparthi, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
(bad code) 
The processor-GPIO controller exposes software-programmable controls that allow untrusted software to reprogram the state of the GPIO
pin.
(good code) 
The GPIO alert-signal pin is blocked from untrusted software access and is controlled only by trusted software, such as the System BIOS.