3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
Weakness ID: 327
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a broken or risky cryptographic algorithm or protocol.
 Extended Description
Cryptographic algorithms are the methods by which data is scrambled to prevent observation or influence by unauthorized actors.
Insecure cryptography can be exploited to expose sensitive information, modify data in unexpected ways, spoof identities of other
users or devices, or other impacts.
It is very dif ficult to produce a secure algorithm, and even high-profile algorithms by accomplished cryptographic experts have been
broken. W ell-known techniques exist to break or weaken various kinds of cryptography . Accordingly , there are a small number of well-
understood and heavily studied algorithms that should be used by most products. Using a non-standard or known-insecure algorithm
is dangerous because a determined adversary may be able to break the algorithm and compromise whatever data has been
protected.
Since the state of cryptography advances so rapidly , it is common for an algorithm to be considered "unsafe" even if it was once
thought to be strong. This can happen when new attacks are discovered, or if computing power increases so much that the
cryptographic algorithm no longer provides the amount of protection that was originally thought.
For a number of reasons, this weakness is even more challenging to manage with hardware deployment of cryptographic algorithms
as opposed to software implementation. First, if a flaw is discovered with hardware-implemented cryptography , the flaw cannot be
fixed in most cases without a recall of the product, because hardware is not easily replaceable like software. Second, because the
hardware product is expected to work for years, the adversary's computing power will only increase over time.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 328 Use of W eak Hash
ParentOf 780 Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP
ParentOf 1240 Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation
PeerOf 311 Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data
PeerOf 301 Reflection Attack in an Authentication Protocol
CanFollow 208 Observable Timing Discrepancy
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
ImplementationWith hardware, the Architecture or Design Phase might start with compliant cryptography , but it is
replaced with a non-compliant crypto during the later Implementation phase due to implementation
constraints (e.g., not enough entropy to make it function properly , or not enough silicon real estate
available to implement). Or , in rare cases (especially for long projects that span over years), the
Architecture specifications might start with cryptography that was originally compliant at the time the
Architectural specs were written, but over the time it became non-compliant due to progress made in
attacking the crypto.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 2/6
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The confidentiality of sensitive data may be compromised by the use of a broken or risky
cryptographic algorithm.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
The integrity of sensitive data may be compromised by the use of a broken or risky cryptographic
algorithm.
Accountability
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
If the cryptographic algorithm is used to ensure the identity of the source of the data (such as
digital signatures), then a broken algorithm will compromise this scheme and the source of the
data cannot be proven.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
These code examples use the Data Encryption Standard (DES).
Once considered a strong algorithm, DES now regarded as insuf ficient for many applications. It has been replaced by Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES).
Example 2
Suppose a chip manufacturer decides to implement a hashing scheme for verifying integrity property of certain bitstream, and it
chooses to implement a SHA1 hardware accelerator for to implement the scheme.
However , SHA1 was theoretically broken in 2005 and practically broken in 2017 at a cost of $110K. This means an attacker with
access to cloud-rented computing power will now be able to provide a malicious bitstream with the same hash value, thereby
defeating the purpose for which the hash was used.
This issue could have been avoided with better design.
Example 3
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
(bad code) Example Language: C 
EVP\_des\_ecb();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Cipher des=Cipher.getInstance("DES...");
des.initEncrypt(key2);
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function encryptPassword($password){
$iv\_size = mcrypt\_get\_iv\_size(MCRYPT\_DES, MCRYPT\_MODE\_ECB);
$iv = mcrypt\_create\_iv($iv\_size, MCRYPT\_RAND);
$key = "This is a password encryption key";
$encryptedPassword = mcrypt\_encrypt(MCRYPT\_DES, $key, $password, MCRYPT\_MODE\_ECB, $iv);
return $encryptedPassword;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The manufacturer chooses a SHA1 hardware accelerator for to implement the scheme because it already has a working SHA1 Intellectual
Property (IP) that the manufacturer had created and used earlier, so this reuse of IP saves design cost.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The manufacturer could have chosen a cryptographic solution that is recommended by the wide security community (including standard-
setting bodies like NIST) and is not expected to be broken (or even better, weakened) within the reasonable life expectancy of the
hardware product. In this case, the architects could have used SHA-2 or SHA-3, even if it meant that such choice would cost extra.3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 3/6Multiple OT products used weak cryptography .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30273 SCADA-based protocol supports a legacy encryption mode that uses Tiny Encryption Algorithm (TEA)
in ECB mode, which leaks patterns in messages and cannot protect integrity
CVE-2022-30320 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) uses a protocol with a cryptographically insecure hashing
algorithm for passwords.
CVE-2008-3775 Product uses "ROT -25" to obfuscate the password in the registry .
CVE-2007-4150 product only uses "XOR" to obfuscate sensitive data
CVE-2007-5460 product only uses "XOR" and a fixed key to obfuscate sensitive data
CVE-2005-4860 Product substitutes characters with other characters in a fixed way , and also leaves certain input
characters unchanged.
CVE-2002-2058 Attackers can infer private IP addresses by dividing each octet by the MD5 hash of '20'.
CVE-2008-3188 Product uses DES when MD5 has been specified in the configuration, resulting in weaker-than-
expected password hashes.
CVE-2005-2946 Default configuration of product uses MD5 instead of stronger algorithms that are available, simplifying
forgery of certificates.
CVE-2007-6013 Product uses the hash of a hash for authentication, allowing attackers to gain privileges if they can
obtain the original hash.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
When there is a need to store or transmit sensitive data, use strong, up-to-date cryptographic algorithms to encrypt that data.
Select a well-vetted algorithm that is currently considered to be strong by experts in the field, and use well-tested
implementations. As with all cryptographic mechanisms, the source code should be available for analysis.
For example, US government systems require FIPS 140-2 certification [ REF-1192 ].
Do not develop custom or private cryptographic algorithms. They will likely be exposed to attacks that are well-understood by
cryptographers. Reverse engineering techniques are mature. If the algorithm can be compromised if attackers find out how it
works, then it is especially weak.
Periodically ensure that the cryptography has not become obsolete. Some older algorithms, once thought to require a billion
years of computing time, can now be broken in days or hours. This includes MD4, MD5, SHA1, DES, and other algorithms that
were once regarded as strong. [ REF-267 ]
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that the design allows one cryptographic algorithm to be replaced with another in the next generation or version. Where
possible, use wrappers to make the interfaces uniform. This will make it easier to upgrade to stronger algorithms. With
hardware, design the product at the Intellectual Property (IP) level so that one cryptographic algorithm can be replaced with
another in the next generation of the hardware product.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Architecture and Design
Carefully manage and protect cryptographic keys (see CWE-320 ). If the keys can be guessed or stolen, then the strength of the
cryptography itself is irrelevant.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Industry-standard implementations will save development time and may be more likely to avoid errors that can occur during
implementation of cryptographic algorithms. Consider the ESAPI Encryption feature.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
When using industry-approved techniques, use them correctly . Don't cut corners by skipping resource-intensive steps ( CWE-
325). These steps are often essential for preventing common attacks.
 Detection Methods
Automated Analysis
Automated methods may be useful for recognizing commonly-used libraries or features that have become obsolete.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: False negatives may occur if the tool is not aware of the cryptographic libraries in use, or if custom cryptography is being
used.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 4/6Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary / Bytecode simple extractor - strings, ELF readers, etc.
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Man-in-the-middle attack tool
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Framework-based Fuzzer
Automated Monitored Execution
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 5/6Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 816 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A7 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 934 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A6 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 958 SFP Secondary Cluster: Broken Cryptography
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1170 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 48. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
Since CWE 4.4, various cryptography-related entries, including CWE-327 and CWE-1240 , have been slated for extensive research,
analysis, and community consultation to define consistent terminology , improve relationships, and reduce overlap or duplication. As
of CWE 4.6, this work is still ongoing.
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Using a broken or risky cryptographic algorithm
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Storage
CER T C Secure Coding MSC30-C CWE More
AbstractDo not use the rand() function for generating pseudorandom
numbers
CER T C Secure Coding MSC32-C CWE More
AbstractProperly seed pseudorandom number generators
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-327: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/327.html 6/6OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-327
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 4.3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-20 Encryption Brute Forcing
CAPEC-459 Creating a Rogue Certification Authority Certificate
CAPEC-473 Signature Spoof
CAPEC-475 Signature Spoofing by Improper V alidation
CAPEC-608 Cryptanalysis of Cellular Encryption
CAPEC-614 Rooting SIM Cards
CAPEC-97 Cryptanalysis
 References
[REF-280] Bruce Schneier . "Applied Cryptography". John Wiley & Sons. 1996. < https://www .schneier .com/books/applied-
cryptography >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-281] Alfred J. Menezes, Paul C. van Oorschot and Scott A. Vanstone. "Handbook of Applied Cryptography". 1996-10.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-282] C Matthew Curtin. "A voiding bogus encryption products: Snake Oil F AQ". 1998-04-10.
.
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-284] Paul F . Roberts. "Microsoft Scraps Old Encryption in New Code". 2005-09-15.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 8, "Cryptographic Foibles" Page 259. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 21: Using the W rong
Cryptography ." Page 315. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-287] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 24 - Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm". SANS Software
Security Institute. 2010-03-25. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-use-of-a-broken-or-risky-cryptographic-algorithm/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Insuf ficient or
Obsolete Encryption", Page 44. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-327. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1192] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-3: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2019-03-22. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/3/final >.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2019-12-10 Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
Provide a hardware-specific submission whose contents were integrated into this entry, affecting extended
description, applicable platforms, demonstrative examples, and mitigations
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names