3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-480: Use of Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/480.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-480: Use of Incorrect Operator
Weakness ID: 480
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product accidentally uses the wrong operator , which changes the logic in security-relevant ways.
 Extended Description
These types of errors are generally the result of a typo by the programmer .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 670 Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
ParentOf 481 Assigning instead of Comparing
ParentOf 482 Comparing instead of Assigning
ParentOf 597 Use of W rong Operator in String Comparison
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 133 String Errors
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
MemberOf 569 Expression Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
Perl (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
This weakness can cause unintended logic to be executed and other unexpected application behavior .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following C/C++ and C# examples attempt to validate an int input parameter against the integer value 100.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int isValid(int value) {
if (value=100) {
printf("Value is valid\n");
return(1);
}
printf("Value is not valid\n");
return(0);
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-480: Use of Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/480.html 2/4However , the expression to be evaluated in the if statement uses the assignment operator "=" rather than the comparison operator
"==". The result of using the assignment operator instead of the comparison operator causes the int variable to be reassigned locally
and the expression in the if statement will always evaluate to the value on the right hand side of the expression. This will result in the
input value not being properly validated, which can cause unexpected results.
Example 2
The following C/C++ example shows a simple implementation of a stack that includes methods for adding and removing integer
values from the stack. The example uses pointers to add and remove integer values to the stack array variable.
The push method includes an expression to assign the integer value to the location in the stack pointed to by the pointer variable.
However , this expression uses the comparison operator "==" rather than the assignment operator "=". The result of using the
comparison operator instead of the assignment operator causes erroneous values to be entered into the stack and can cause
unexpected results.
Example 3
The example code below is taken from the CV A6 processor core of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton SoC. Debug access allows
users to access internal hardware registers that are otherwise not exposed for user access or restricted access through access
control protocols. Hence, requests to enter debug mode are checked and authorized only if the processor has suf ficient privileges. In
addition, debug accesses are also locked behind password checkers. Thus, the processor enters debug mode only when the privilege
level requirement is met, and the correct debug password is provided.
The following code [ REF-1377 ] illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of debug mode. The core correctly checks if the
debug requests have suf ficient privileges and enables the debug\_mode\_d and debug\_mode\_q signals. It also correctly checks for
debug password and enables umode\_i signal.}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
bool isValid(int value) {
if (value=100) {
Console.WriteLine("Value is valid.");
return true;
}
Console.WriteLine("Value is not valid.");
return false;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define SIZE 50
int \*tos, \*p1, stack[SIZE];
void push(int i) {
p1++;
if(p1==(tos+SIZE)) {
// Print stack overflow error message and exit
}
\*p1 == i;
}
int pop(void) {
if(p1==tos) {
// Print stack underflow error message and exit
}
p1--;
return \*(p1+1);
}
int main(int argc, char \*argv[]) {
// initialize tos and p1 to point to the top of stack
tos = stack;
p1 = stack;
// code to add and remove items from stack
...
return 0;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module csr\_regfile #(
...
// check that we actually want to enter debug depending on the privilege level we are currently in
unique case (priv\_lvl\_o)
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreakm;
...
i PRIVLVLUbi3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-480: Use of Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/480.html 3/4However , it grants debug access and changes the privilege level, priv\_lvl\_o, even when one of the two checks is satisfied and the
other is not. Because of this, debug access can be granted by simply requesting with suf ficient privileges (i.e., debug\_mode\_q is
enabled) and failing the password check (i.e., umode\_i is disabled). This allows an attacker to bypass the debug password checking
and gain debug access to the core, compromising the security of the processor .
A fix to this issue is to only change the privilege level of the processor when both checks are satisfied, i.e., the request has enough
privileges (i.e., debug\_mode\_q is enabled) and the password checking is successful (i.e., umode\_i is enabled) [ REF-1378 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-3979 Chain: data visualization program written in PHP uses the "!=" operator instead of the type-strict "!=="
operator ( CWE-480 ) when validating hash values, potentially leading to an incorrect type conversion
(CWE-704 )
CVE-2021-3116 Chain: Python-based HTTP Proxy server uses the wrong boolean operators ( CWE-480 ) causing an
incorrect comparison ( CWE-697 ) that identifies an authN failure if all three conditions are met instead
of only one, allowing bypass of the proxy authentication ( CWE-1390 )
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can be found easily using static analysis. However in some cases an operator might appear to be incorrect, but
is actually correct and reflects unusual logic within the program.
Manual Static Analysis
This weakness can be found easily using static analysis. However in some cases an operator might appear to be incorrect, but
is actually correct and reflects unusual logic within the program.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 747 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 14 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 871 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 03 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreaku;
...
assign priv\_lvl\_o = (debug\_mode\_q || umode\_i) ? riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M : priv\_lvl\_q;
...
debug\_mode\_q <= debug\_mode\_d;
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module csr\_regfile #(
...
// check that we actually want to enter debug depending on the privilege level we are currently in
unique case (priv\_lvl\_o)
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreakm;
...
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreaku;
...
assign priv\_lvl\_o = (debug\_mode\_q && umode\_i) ? riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M : priv\_lvl\_q;
...
debug\_mode\_q <= debug\_mode\_d;
...3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-480: Use of Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/480.html 4/4Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Using the wrong operator
CER T C Secure Coding EXP45-C CWE More Abstract Do not perform assignments in selection statements
CER T C Secure Coding EXP46-C CWE More Abstract Do not use a bitwise operator with a Boolean-like operand
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in Computation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ypos", Page
289. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1377] "csr\_regile.sv line 938". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/57e7b2109c1ea2451914878df2e6ca740c2dcf34/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L938 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
[REF-1378] "Fix for csr\_regfile.sv line 938". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/a7b61209e56c48eec585eeedea8413997ec71e4a/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L938C31-L938C56 >. URL
validated: 2023-12-13 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-07 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-07 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names