3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-193: Oﬀ-by-one Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/193.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-193: Off-by-one Error
Weakness ID: 193
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product calculates or uses an incorrect maximum or minimum value that is 1 more, or 1 less, than the correct value.
 Alternate T erms
off-by-five: An "of f-by-five" error was reported for sudo in 2002 (CVE-2002-0184), but that is more like a "length calculation"
error.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 170 Improper Null Termination
CanPrecede 617 Reachable Assertion
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory); DoS: Instability
This weakness will generally lead to undefined behavior and therefore crashes. In the case of
overflows involving loop index variables, the likelihood of infinite loops is also high.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If the value in question is important to data (as opposed to flow), simple data corruption has
occurred. Also, if the wrap around results in other conditions such as buf fer overflows, further
memory corruption may occur .
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
This weakness can sometimes trigger buf fer overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code.
This is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code allocates memory for a maximum number of widgets. It then gets a user-specified number of widgets, making sure
that the user does not request too many . It then initializes the elements of the array using InitializeWidget(). Because the number of
widgets can vary for each request, the code inserts a NULL pointer to signify the location of the last widget.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-193: Oﬀ-by-one Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/193.html 2/4However , this code contains an of f-by-one calculation error ( CWE-193 ). It allocates exactly enough space to contain the specified
number of widgets, but it does not include the space for the NULL pointer . As a result, the allocated buf fer is smaller than it is
supposed to be ( CWE-131 ). So if the user ever requests MAX\_NUM\_WIDGETS, there is an out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 ) when the
NULL is assigned. Depending on the environment and compilation settings, this could cause memory corruption.
Example 2
In this example, the code does not account for the terminating null character , and it writes one byte beyond the end of the buf fer.
The first call to strncat() appends up to 20 characters plus a terminating null character to fullname[]. There is plenty of allocated space
for this, and there is no weakness associated with this first call. However , the second call to strncat() potentially appends another 20
characters. The code does not account for the terminating null character that is automatically added by strncat(). This terminating null
character would be written one byte beyond the end of the fullname[] buf fer. Therefore an of f-by-one error exists with the second
strncat() call, as the third argument should be 19.
When using a function like strncat() one must leave a free byte at the end of the buf fer for a terminating null character , thus avoiding
the of f-by-one weakness. Additionally , the last argument to strncat() is the number of characters to append, which must be less than
the remaining space in the buf fer. Be careful not to just use the total size of the buf fer.
Example 3
The Of f-by-one error can also be manifested when reading characters from a character array within a for loop that has an incorrect
continuation condition.
In this case, the correct continuation condition is shown below .int i;
unsigned int numWidgets;
Widget \*\*WidgetList;
numWidgets = GetUntrustedSizeValue();
if ((numWidgets == 0) || (numWidgets > MAX\_NUM\_WIDGETS)) {
ExitError("Incorrect number of widgets requested!");
}
WidgetList = (Widget \*\*)malloc(numWidgets \* sizeof(Widget \*));
printf("WidgetList ptr=%p\n", WidgetList);
for(i=0; i. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-156] Steve Christey . "Off-by-one errors: a brief explanation". Secprog and SC-L mailing list posts. 2004-05-05.
.
[REF-157] klog. "The Frame Pointer Overwrite". Phrack Issue 55, Chapter 8. 1999-09-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-140] Greg Hoglund and Gary McGraw . "Exploiting Software: How to Break Code". Chapter 7, "Buf fer Overflow". Addison-
Wesley . 2004-02-27. < https://www .amazon.com/Exploiting-Software-How-Break-Code/dp/0201786958 >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Of f-by-One
Errors", Page 180. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
