3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-299: Improper Check for Certiﬁcate Revocation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/299.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-299: Improper Check for Certificate Revocation
Weakness ID: 299
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not check or incorrectly checks the revocation status of a certificate, which may cause it to use a certificate that has
been compromised.
 Extended Description
An improper check for certificate revocation is a far more serious flaw than related certificate failures. This is because the use of any
revoked certificate is almost certainly malicious. The most common reason for certificate revocation is compromise of the system in
question, with the result that no legitimate servers will be using a revoked certificate, unless they are sorely out of sync.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 404 Improper Resource Shutdown or Release
ChildOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
ParentOf 370 Missing Check for Certificate Revocation after Initial Check
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationWhen the product uses certificate pinning, the developer might not properly validate all relevant components of
the certificate before pinning the certificate. This can make it dif ficult or expensive to test after the pinning is
complete.
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Trust may be assigned to an entity who is not who it claims to be.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Data from an untrusted (and possibly malicious) source may be integrated.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Data may be disclosed to an entity impersonating a trusted entity , resulting in information
disclosure.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following OpenSSL code ensures that there is a certificate before continuing execution.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
// got a certificate, do secret things3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-299: Improper Check for Certiﬁcate Revocation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/299.html 2/3Because this code does not use SSL\_get\_verify\_results() to check the certificate, it could accept certificates that have been revoked
(X509\_V\_ERR\_CER T\_REVOKED). The product could be communicating with a malicious host.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2011-2014 LDAP-over-SSL implementation does not check Certificate Revocation List (CRL), allowing spoofing
using a revoked certificate.
CVE-2011-0199 Operating system does not check Certificate Revocation List (CRL) in some cases, allowing spoofing
using a revoked certificate.
CVE-2010-5185 Antivirus product does not check whether certificates from signed executables have been revoked.
CVE-2009-3046 Web browser does not check if any intermediate certificates are revoked.
CVE-2009-0161 chain: Ruby module for OCSP misinterprets a response, preventing detection of a revoked certificate.
CVE-2011-2701 chain: incorrect parsing of replies from OCSP responders allows bypass using a revoked certificate.
CVE-2011-0935 Router can permanently cache certain public keys, which would allow bypass if the certificate is later
revoked.
CVE-2009-1358 chain: OS package manager does not properly check the return value, allowing bypass using a
revoked certificate.
CVE-2009-0642 chain: language interpreter does not properly check the return value from an OSCP function, allowing
bypass using a revoked certificate.
CVE-2008-4679 chain: web service component does not call the expected method, which prevents a check for revoked
certificates.
CVE-2006-4410 Certificate revocation list not searched for certain certificates.
CVE-2006-4409 Product cannot access certificate revocation list when an HTTP proxy is being used.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that certificates are checked for revoked status.
Phase: Implementation
If certificate pinning is being used, ensure that all relevant properties of the certificate are fully validated before the certificate is
pinned, including the revoked status.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 948 SFP Secondary Cluster: Digital Certificate
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to check for certificate revocation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-299: Improper Check for Certiﬁcate Revocation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/299.html 3/3[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names