3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 1/9
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
Weakness ID: 732
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product specifies permissions for a security-critical resource in a way that allows that resource to be read or modified by
unintended actors.
 Extended Description
When a resource is given a permission setting that provides access to a wider range of actors than required, it could lead to the
exposure of sensitive information, or the modification of that resource by unintended parties. This is especially dangerous when the
resource is related to program configuration, execution, or sensitive user data. For example, consider a misconfigured storage
account for the cloud that can be read or written by a public or anonymous user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
ParentOf 276 Incorrect Default Permissions
ParentOf 277 Insecure Inherited Permissions
ParentOf 278 Insecure Preserved Inherited Permissions
ParentOf 279 Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions
ParentOf 281 Improper Preservation of Permissions
ParentOf 766 Critical Data Element Declared Public
ParentOf 1004 Sensitive Cookie Without 'HttpOnly' Flag
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
The developer might make certain assumptions about the environment in which the product operates -
e.g., that the software is running on a single-user system, or the software is only accessible to trusted
administrators. When the software is running in a dif ferent environment, the permissions become a
problem.
InstallationThe developer may set loose permissions in order to minimize problems when the user first runs the
program, then create documentation stating that permissions should be tightened. Since system
administrators and users do not always read the documentation, this can result in insecure permissions
being left unchanged.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Cloud Computing (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality Technical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or DirectoriesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 2/9An attacker may be able to read sensitive information from the associated resource, such as
credentials or configuration information stored in a file.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker may be able to modify critical properties of the associated resource to gain privileges,
such as replacing a world-writable executable with a Trojan horse.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Other
An attacker may be able to destroy or corrupt critical data in the associated resource, such as
deletion of records from a database.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code sets the umask of the process to 0 before creating a file and writing "Hello world" into the file.
After running this program on a UNIX system, running the "ls -l" command might return the following output:
The "rw-rw-rw-" string indicates that the owner , group, and world (all users) can read the file and write to it.
Example 2
This code creates a home directory for a new user , and makes that user the owner of the directory . If the new directory cannot be
owned by the user , the directory is deleted.
Because the optional "mode" argument is omitted from the call to mkdir(), the directory is created with the default permissions 0777.
Simply setting the new user as the owner of the directory does not explicitly change the permissions of the directory , leaving it with the
default. This default allows any user to read and write to the directory , allowing an attack on the user's files. The code also fails to
change the owner group of the directory , which may result in access by unexpected groups.
This code may also be vulnerable to Path Traversal ( CWE-22 ) attacks if an attacker supplies a non alphanumeric username.
Example 3
The following code snippet might be used as a monitor to periodically record whether a web site is alive. To ensure that the file can
always be modified, the code uses chmod() to make the file world-writable.(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define OUTFILE "hello.out"
umask(0);
FILE \*out;
/\* Ignore link following (CWE-59) for brevity \*/
out = fopen(OUTFILE, "w");
if (out) {
fprintf(out, "hello world!\n");
fclose(out);
}
(result) 
-rw-rw-rw- 1 username 13 Nov 24 17:58 hello.out
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function createUserDir($username){
$path = '/home/'.$username;
if(!mkdir($path)){
return false;
}
if(!chown($path,$username)){
rmdir($path);
return false;
}
return true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$fileName = "secretFile.out";
if (-e $fileName) {
chmod 0777, $fileName;
}
$tFH3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 3/9The first time the program runs, it might create a new file that inherits the permissions from its environment. A file listing might look
like:
This listing might occur when the user has a default umask of 022, which is a common setting. Depending on the nature of the file, the
user might not have intended to make it readable by everyone on the system.
The next time the program runs, however - and all subsequent executions - the chmod will set the file's permissions so that the owner ,
group, and world (all users) can read the file and write to it:
Perhaps the programmer tried to do this because a dif ferent process uses dif ferent permissions that might prevent the file from being
updated.
Example 4
This program creates and reads from an admin file to determine privilege information.
If the admin file doesn't exist, the program will create one. In order to create the file, the program must have write privileges to write to
the file. After the file is created, the permissions need to be changed to read only .
os.Create will create a file with 0666 permissions before umask if the specified file does not exist. A typical umask of 0022 would
result in the file having 0644 permissions. That is, the file would have world-writable and world-readable permissions.
In this scenario, it is advised to use the more customizable method of os.OpenFile with the os.O\_WRONL Y and os.O\_CREA TE flags
specifying 0640 permissions to create the admin file.
This is because on a typical system where the umask is 0022, the perm 0640 applied in os.OpenFile will result in a file of 0620 where
only the owner and group can write.
Example 5
The following command recursively sets world-readable permissions for a directory and all of its children:
If this command is run from a program, the person calling the program might not expect that all the files under the directory will be
world-readable. If the directory is expected to contain private data, this could become a security problem.
Example 6
The following Azure command updates the settings for a storage account:my $outFH;
if (! open($outFH, ">>$fileName")) {
ExitError("Couldn't append to $fileName: $!");
}
my $dateString = FormatCurrentTime();
my $status = IsHostAlive("cwe.mitre.org");
print $outFH "$dateString cwe status: $status!\n";
close($outFH);
(result) 
-rw-r--r-- 1 username 13 Nov 24 17:58 secretFile.out
(result) 
-rw-rw-rw- 1 username 13 Nov 24 17:58 secretFile.out
(bad code) Example Language: Go 
const adminFile = "/etc/admin-users"
func createAdminFileIfNotExists() error {
file, err := os.Create(adminFile)
if err != nil {
return err
}
return nil
}
func changeModeOfAdminFile() error {
fileMode := os.FileMode(0440)
if err := os.Chmod(adminFile, fileMode); err != nil {
return err
}
return nil
}
(bad code) Example Language: Shell 
chmod -R ugo+r DIRNAME
(bad code) Example Language: Shell 
az storage account update --name  --resource-group  --allow-blob-public-access true3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 4/9However , "Allow Blob Public Access" is set to true, meaning that anonymous/public users can access blobs.
The command could be modified to disable "Allow Blob Public Access" by setting it to false.
Example 7
The following Google Cloud Storage command gets the settings for a storage account named 'BUCKET\_NAME':
Suppose the command returns the following result:
This result includes the "allUsers" or IAM role added as members, causing this policy configuration to allow public access to cloud
storage resources. There would be a similar concern if "allAuthenticatedUsers" was present.
The command could be modified to remove "allUsers" and/or "allAuthenticatedUsers" as follows:
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29527 Go application for cloud management creates a world-writable sudoers file that allows local attackers to
inject sudo rules and escalate privileges to root by winning a race condition.
CVE-2009-3482 Anti-virus product sets insecure "Everyone: Full Control" permissions for files under the "Program Files"
folder , allowing attackers to replace executables with Trojan horses.
CVE-2009-3897 Product creates directories with 0777 permissions at installation, allowing users to gain privileges and
access a socket used for authentication.
CVE-2009-3489 Photo editor installs a service with an insecure security descriptor , allowing users to stop or start the
service, or execute commands as SYSTEM.
CVE-2020-15708 socket created with insecure permissions
CVE-2009-3289 Library function copies a file to a new target and uses the source file's permissions for the target, which
is incorrect when the source file is a symbolic link, which typically has 0777 permissions.
CVE-2009-0115 Device driver uses world-writable permissions for a socket file, allowing attackers to inject arbitrary
commands.
CVE-2009-1073 LDAP server stores a cleartext password in a world-readable file.
CVE-2009-0141 Terminal emulator creates TTY devices with world-writable permissions, allowing an attacker to write to
the terminals of other users.
CVE-2008-0662 VPN product stores user credentials in a registry key with "Everyone: Full Control" permissions,
allowing attackers to steal the credentials.
CVE-2008-0322 Driver installs its device interface with "Everyone: W rite" permissions.
CVE-2009-3939 Driver installs a file with world-writable permissions.
CVE-2009-3611 Product changes permissions to 0777 before deleting a backup; the permissions stay insecure for
subsequent backups.
CVE-2007-6033 Product creates a share with "Everyone: Full Control" permissions, allowing arbitrary program
execution.
CVE-2007-5544 Product uses "Everyone: Full Control" permissions for memory-mapped files (shared memory) in inter-
process communication, allowing attackers to tamper with a session.(good code) Example Language: Shell 
az storage account update --name  --resource-group  --allow-blob-public-access false
(informative) Example Language: Shell 
gsutil iam get gs://BUCKET\_NAME
(bad code) Example Language: JSON 
{
"bindings":[{
"members":[
"projectEditor: PROJECT-ID",
"projectOwner: PROJECT-ID"
],
"role":"roles/storage.legacyBucketOwner"
},
{
"members":[
"allUsers",
"projectViewer: PROJECT-ID"
],
"role":"roles/storage.legacyBucketReader"
}
]
}
(good code) Example Language: Shell 
gsutil iam ch -d allUsers gs://BUCKET\_NAME
gsutil iam ch -d allAuthenticatedUsers gs://BUCKET\_NAME3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 5/9CVE-2005-4868 Database product uses read/write permissions for everyone for its shared memory , allowing theft of
credentials.
CVE-2004-1714 Security product uses "Everyone: Full Control" permissions for its configuration files.
CVE-2001-0006 "Everyone: Full Control" permissions assigned to a mutex allows users to disable network connectivity .
CVE-2002-0969 Chain: database product contains buf fer overflow that is only reachable through a .ini configuration file -
which has "Everyone: Full Control" permissions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
When using a critical resource such as a configuration file, check to see if the resource has insecure permissions (such as being
modifiable by any regular user) [ REF-62 ], and generate an error or even exit the software if there is a possibility that the
resource could have been modified by an unauthorized party .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Divide the software into anonymous, normal, privileged, and administrative areas. Reduce the attack surface by carefully
defining distinct user groups, privileges, and/or roles. Map these against data, functionality , and the related resources. Then set
the permissions accordingly . This will allow you to maintain more fine-grained control over your resources. [ REF-207 ]
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: This can be an ef fective strategy . However , in practice, it may be dif ficult or time consuming to define these areas when
there are many dif ferent resources or user types, or if the applications features change rapidly .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
Phases: Implementation; Installation
During program startup, explicitly set the default permissions or umask to the most restrictive setting possible. Also set the
appropriate permissions during program installation. This will prevent you from inheriting insecure permissions from any user
who installs or runs the program.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: System Configuration
For all configuration files, executables, and libraries, make sure that they are only readable and writable by the software's
administrator .
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Documentation
Do not suggest insecure configuration changes in documentation, especially if those configurations can extend to resources and
other programs that are outside the scope of the application.
Phase: Installation
Do not assume that a system administrator will manually change the configuration to the settings that are recommended in the
software's manual.
Phases: Operation; System Configuration
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Ensure that the software runs properly under the United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB) [ REF-199 ] or an
equivalent hardening configuration guide, which many organizations use to limit the attack surface and potential risk of deployed
software.
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration; Operation
When storing data in the cloud (e.g., S3 buckets, Azure blobs, Google Cloud Storage, etc.), use the provider's controls to disable
public access.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 6/9Automated static analysis may be ef fective in detecting permission problems for system resources such as files, directories,
shared memory , device interfaces, etc. Automated techniques may be able to detect the use of library functions that modify
permissions, then analyze function calls for arguments that contain potentially insecure values.
However , since the software's intended security policy might allow loose permissions for certain operations (such as publishing a
file on a web server), automated static analysis may produce some false positives - i.e., warnings that do not have any security
consequences or require any code changes.
When custom permissions models are used - such as defining who can read messages in a particular forum in a bulletin board
system - these can be dif ficult to detect using automated static analysis. It may be possible to define custom signatures that
identify any custom functions that implement the permission checks and assignments.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated dynamic analysis may be ef fective in detecting permission problems for system resources such as files, directories,
shared memory , device interfaces, etc.
However , since the software's intended security policy might allow loose permissions for certain operations (such as publishing a
file on a web server), automated dynamic analysis may produce some false positives - i.e., warnings that do not have any
security consequences or require any code changes.
When custom permissions models are used - such as defining who can read messages in a particular forum in a bulletin board
system - these can be dif ficult to detect using automated dynamic analysis. It may be possible to define custom signatures that
identify any custom functions that implement the permission checks and assignments.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Manual Static Analysis
Manual static analysis may be ef fective in detecting the use of custom permissions models and functions. The code could then
be examined to identifying usage of the related functions. Then the human analyst could evaluate permission assignments in the
context of the intended security model of the software.
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Manual dynamic analysis may be ef fective in detecting the use of custom permissions models and functions. The program could
then be executed with a focus on exercising code paths that are related to the custom permissions. Then the human analyst
could evaluate permission assignments in the context of the intended security model of the software.
Fuzzing
Fuzzing is not ef fective in detecting this weakness.
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process and watch for library functions or system calls on OS resources such as files, directories, and
shared memory . Examine the arguments to these calls to infer which permissions are being used.
Note: Note that this technique is only useful for permissions issues related to system resources. It is not likely to detect
application-level business rules that are related to permissions, such as if a user of a blog system marks a post as "private," but
the blog system inadvertently marks it as "public."
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inter-application Flow Analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 7/9Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host-based V ulnerability Scanners - Examine configuration for flaws, verifying that audit mechanisms work, ensure
host configuration meets certain predefined criteria
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Automated Monitored Execution
Forced Path Execution
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 815 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 8/9MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 860 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 17 - Runtime Environment
(ENV)
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 946 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource Permissions
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1149 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 15. Platform Security (SEC)
MemberOf 1150 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 16. Runtime Environment
(ENV)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
While the name itself indicates an assignment of permissions for resources, this is often misused for vulnerabilities in which
"permissions" are not checked, which is an "authorization" weakness ( CWE-285 or descendants) within CWE's model [ REF-
1287 ].
Comments:
Closely analyze the specific mistake that is allowing the resource to be exposed, and perform a CWE mapping for that mistake.
 Notes
Maintenance
The relationships between privileges, permissions, and actors (e.g. users and groups) need further refinement within the Research
view. One complication is that these concepts apply to two dif ferent pillars, related to control of resources ( CWE-664 ) and protection
mechanism failures ( CWE-693 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO03-J Create files with appropriate access permission
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC01-J Do not allow tainted variables in privileged blocks
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ENV03-J Do not grant dangerous combinations of permissions
CER T C Secure Coding FIO06-C Create files with appropriate access permissions
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-122 Privilege Abuse
CAPEC-127 Directory Indexing
CAPEC-17 Using Malicious Files
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
CAPEC-206 Signing Malicious Code
CAPEC-234 Hijacking a privileged process
CAPEC-60 Reusing Session IDs (aka Session Replay)
CAPEC-61 Session Fixation
CAPEC-62 Cross Site Request Forgery
CAPEC-642 Replace Binaries
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "File
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/732.html 9/9Permissions." Page 495. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". Chapter 8,
"Access Control." Page 194. 1st Edition. Addison-W esley . 2002.
[REF-594] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 21 - Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Response". SANS Software
Security Institute. 2010-03-24. < http://software-security .sans.org/blog/2010/03/24/top-25-series-rank-21-incorrect-permission-
assignment-for-critical-response >.
[REF-199] NIST . "United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB)". < https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/United-States-
Government-Configuration-Baseline >. URL validated: 2023-03-28 .
[REF-1287] MITRE. "Supplemental Details - 2022 CWE Top 25". Details of Problematic Mappings. 2022-06-28.
.
[REF-1307] Center for Internet Security . "CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark version 1.5.0". Section 3.7. 2022-08-16.
. URL validated: 2023-01-19 .
[REF-1327] Center for Internet Security . "CIS Google Cloud Computing Platform Benchmark version 1.3.0". Section 5.1. 2022-03-
31. < https://www .cisecurity .org/benchmark/google\_cloud\_computing\_platform >. URL validated: 2023-04-24 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-09-08
(CWE 1.0, 2008-09-09)CWE Content Team MITRE
new weakness-focused entry for Research view.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names