3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1262: Improper Access Control for Register Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1262.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1262: Improper Access Control for Register Interface
Weakness ID: 1262
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses memory-mapped I/O registers that act as an interface to hardware functionality from software, but there is improper
access control to those registers.
 Extended Description
Software commonly accesses peripherals in a System-on-Chip (SoC) or other device through a memory-mapped register interface.
Malicious software could tamper with any security-critical hardware data that is accessible directly or indirectly through the register
interface, which could lead to a loss of confidentiality and integrity .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness may be exploited if the register interface design does not adequately protect hardware
assets from software.
ImplementationMis-implementation of access control policies may inadvertently allow access to hardware assets
through the register interface.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data; Modify Memory; Modify Application Data; Gain Privileges or
Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Unexpected State; Alter Execution Logic
Confidentiality of hardware assets may be violated if the protected information can be read out by
software through the register interface. Registers storing security state, settings, other security-
critical data may be corruptible by software without correctly implemented protections.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The register interface provides software access to hardware functionality . This functionality is an attack surface. This attack surface
may be used to run untrusted code on the system through the register interface. As an example, cryptographic accelerators require a
mechanism for software to select modes of operation and to provide plaintext or ciphertext data to be encrypted or decrypted as well
as other functions. This functionality is commonly provided through registers.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1262: Improper Access Control for Register Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1262.html 2/4Example 2
The example code is taken from the Control/Status Register (CSR) module inside the processor core of the HACK@DAC'19 buggy
CVA6 SoC [ REF-1340 ]. In RISC-V ISA [REF-1341 ], the CSR file contains dif ferent sets of registers with dif ferent privilege levels, e.g.,
user mode (U), supervisor mode (S), hypervisor mode (H), machine mode (M), and debug mode (D), with dif ferent read-write policies,
read-only (RO) and read-write (R W). For example, machine mode, which is the highest privilege mode in a RISC-V system, registers
should not be accessible in user , supervisor , or hypervisor modes.
The vulnerable example code allows the machine exception program counter (MEPC) register to be accessed from a user mode
program by excluding the MEPC from the access control check. MEPC as per the RISC-V specification can be only written or read by
machine mode code. Thus, the attacker in the user mode can run code in machine mode privilege (privilege escalation).
To mitigate the issue, fix the privilege check so that it throws an Illegal Instruction Exception for user mode accesses to the MEPC
register . [REF-1345 ]
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2014-2915 virtualization product does not restrict access to debug and other processor registers in the hardware,
allowing a crash of the host or guest OS
CVE-2021-3011 virtual interrupt controller in a virtualization product allows crash of host by writing a certain invalid
value to a register , which triggers a fatal error instead of returning an error code
CVE-2020-12446 Driver exposes access to Model Specific Register (MSR) registers, allowing admin privileges.
CVE-2015-2150 Virtualization product does not restrict access to PCI command registers, allowing host crash from the
guest.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design proper policies for hardware register access from software.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that access control policies for register access are implemented in accordance with the specified design.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)(bad code) 
Cryptographic key material stored in registers inside the cryptographic accelerator can be accessed by software.
(good code) 
Key material stored in registers should never be accessible to software. Even if software can provide a key, all read-back paths to software
should be disabled.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
if (csr\_we || csr\_read) begin
if ((riscv::priv\_lvl\_t'(priv\_lvl\_o & csr\_addr.csr\_decode.priv\_lvl) != csr\_addr.csr\_decode.priv\_lvl) && !
(csr\_addr.address==riscv::CSR\_MEPC)) begin
csr\_exception\_o.cause = riscv::ILLEGAL\_INSTR;
csr\_exception\_o.valid = 1'b1;
end
// check access to debug mode only CSRs
if (csr\_addr\_i[11:4] == 8'h7b && !debug\_mode\_q) begin
csr\_exception\_o.cause = riscv::ILLEGAL\_INSTR;
csr\_exception\_o.valid = 1'b1;
end
end
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
if (csr\_we || csr\_read) begin
if ((riscv::priv\_lvl\_t'(priv\_lvl\_o & csr\_addr.csr\_decode.priv\_lvl) != csr\_addr.csr\_decode.priv\_lvl)) begin
csr\_exception\_o.cause = riscv::ILLEGAL\_INSTR;
csr\_exception\_o.valid = 1'b1;
end
// check access to debug mode only CSRs
if (csr\_addr\_i[11:4] == 8'h7b && !debug\_mode\_q) begin
csr\_exception\_o.cause = riscv::ILLEGAL\_INSTR;
csr\_exception\_o.valid = 1'b1;
end
end3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1262: Improper Access Control for Register Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1262.html 3/4
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This is applicable in the Architecture phase before implementation started. Make sure access policy is specified for the entire
memory map. Manual analysis may not ensure the implementation is correct.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Analysis
Registers controlling hardware should have access control implemented. This access control may be checked manually for
correct implementation. Items to check consist of how are trusted parties set, how are trusted parties verified, how are accesses
verified, etc. Ef fectiveness of a manual analysis will vary depending upon how complicated the interface is constructed.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Simulation / Emulation
Functional simulation is applicable during the Implementation Phase. Testcases must be created and executed for memory
mapped registers to verify adherence to the access control policy . This method can be ef fective, since functional verification
needs to be performed on the design, and verification for this weakness will be included. There can be dif ficulty covering the
entire memory space during the test.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Formal V erification
Formal verification is applicable during the Implementation phase. Assertions need to be created in order to capture illegal
register access scenarios and prove that they cannot occur . Formal methods are exhaustive and can be very ef fective, but
creating the cases for large designs may be complex and dif ficult.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Analysis
Information flow tracking can be applicable during the Implementation phase. Security sensitive data (assets) - for example, as
stored in registers - is automatically tracked over time through the design to verify the data doesn't reach illegal destinations that
violate the access policies for the memory map. This method can be very ef fective when used together with simulation and
emulation, since detecting violations doesn't rely on specific scenarios or data values. This method does rely on simulation and
emulation, so testcases must exist in order to use this method.
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
Manual documentation review of the system memory map, register specification, and permissions associated with accessing
security-relevant functionality exposed via memory-mapped registers.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Fuzzing
Perform penetration testing (either manual or semi-automated with fuzzing) to verify that access control mechanisms such as
the memory protection units or on-chip bus firewall settings adequately protect critical hardware registers from software access.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-680 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Registers
 References
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1262: Improper Access Control for Register Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1262.html 4/4[REF-1340] "Hackatdac19 csr\_regfile.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/619e9fb0ef32ee1e01ad76b8732a156572c65700/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L854:L857 >. URL validated: 2023-
06-21 .
[REF-1341] Andrew W aterman, Yunsup Lee, Rimas Avižienis, David Patterson and Krste Asanović. "The RISC-V Instruction Set
Manual". V olume II: Privileged Architecture. 2016-11-04. < https://people.eecs.berkeley .edu/~krste/papers/riscv-privileged-
v1.9.1.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-06-21 .
[REF-1345] Florian Zaruba, Michael Schaf fner and Andreas Traber . "csr\_regfile.sv". 2019.
. URL
validated: 2023-06-21 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-08
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-11 Anders Nordstrom, Alric Althof f Tortuga Logic
Provided detection methods and observed examples
2021-10-12 Nicole Fern Riscure
Provided detection methods
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names