3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1384: Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1384.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1384: Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
Weakness ID: 1384
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle unexpected physical or environmental conditions that occur naturally or are artificially induced.
 Extended Description
Hardware products are typically only guaranteed to behave correctly within certain physical limits or environmental conditions. Such
products cannot necessarily control the physical or external conditions to which they are subjected. However , the inability to handle
such conditions can undermine a product's security . For example, an unexpected physical or environmental condition may cause the
flipping of a bit that is used for an authentication decision. This unexpected condition could occur naturally or be induced artificially by
an adversary .
Physical or environmental conditions of concern are:
Atmospheric characteristics: extreme temperature ranges, etc.
Interference: electromagnetic interference (EMI), radio frequency interference (RFI), etc.
Assorted light sources: white light, ultra-violet light (UV), lasers, infrared (IR), etc.
Power variances: under-voltages, over-voltages, under-current, over-current, etc.
Clock variances: glitching, overclocking, clock stretching, etc.
Component aging and degradation
Materials manipulation: focused ion beams (FIB), etc.
Exposure to radiation: x-rays, cosmic radiation, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 703 Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ParentOf 1247 Improper Protection Against V oltage and Clock Glitches
ParentOf 1261 Improper Handling of Single Event Upsets
ParentOf 1332 Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips
ParentOf 1351 Improper Handling of Hardware Behavior in Exceptionally Cold Environments
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design The product's design might not consider checking and handling extreme conditions.
ManufacturingFor hardware manufacturing, sub-par components might be chosen that are not able to handle the
expected environmental conditions.
 Applicable Platforms
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
Consequences of this weakness are highly dependent on the role of af fected components within the
larger product.
 Observed ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1384: Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1384.html 2/2Reference Description
CVE-2019-17391 Lack of anti-glitch protections allows an attacker to launch a physical attack to bypass the secure boot
and read protected eFuses.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
In requirements, be specific about expectations for how the product will perform when it exceeds physical and environmental
boundary conditions, e.g., by shutting down.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Where possible, include independent components that can detect excess environmental conditions and have the capability to
shut down the product.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Where possible, use shielding or other materials that can increase the adversary's workload and reduce the likelihood of being
able to successfully trigger a security-related failure.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1367 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Physical Systems
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 References
[REF-1248] Securing Energy Infrastructure Executive Task Force (SEI ETF). "Categories of Security V ulnerabilities in ICS". ICS
Communications / 2. Unreliability . 2022-03-09. < https://inl.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/SEI-ETF-NCSV -TPT -Categories-of-
Security-V ulnerabilities-ICS-v1\_03-09-22.pdf >.
[REF-1255] Sergei P . Skorobogatov . "Semi-invasive attacks - A new approach to hardware security analysis". 2005-04.
.
[REF-1285] Texas Instruments. "Physical Security Attacks Against Silicon Devices". 2022-01-31.
.
[REF-1286] Lennert W outers, Benedikt Gierlichs and Bart Preneel. "On The Susceptibility of Texas Instruments SimpleLink
Platform Microcontrollers to Non-Invasive Physical Attacks". 1.2. 2022-03-14. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2022/328.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2022-04-21
(CWE 4.7, 2022-04-28)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-05-13 Members of the Hardware CWE Special Interest Group
Provided feedback on descriptions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
