3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/125.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read
Weakness ID: 125
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product reads data past the end, or before the beginning, of the intended buf fer.
 Extended Description
Typically , this can allow attackers to read sensitive information from other memory locations or cause a crash. A crash can occur when
the code reads a variable amount of data and assumes that a sentinel exists to stop the read operation, such as a NUL in a string.
The expected sentinel might not be located in the out-of-bounds memory , causing excessive data to be read, leading to a
segmentation fault or a buf fer overflow . The product may modify an index or perform pointer arithmetic that references a memory
location that is outside of the boundaries of the buf fer. A subsequent read operation then produces undefined or unexpected results.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
ParentOf 126 Buffer Over-read
ParentOf 127 Buffer Under-read
CanFollow 822 Untrusted Pointer Dereference
CanFollow 823 Use of Out-of-range Pointer Of fset
CanFollow 824 Access of Uninitialized Pointer
CanFollow 825 Expired Pointer Dereference
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
By reading out-of-bounds memory , an attacker might be able to get secret values, such as memory
addresses, which can be bypass protection mechanisms such as ASLR in order to improve the
reliability and likelihood of exploiting a separate weakness to achieve code execution instead of just
denial of service.
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/125.html 2/4Example 1
In the following code, the method retrieves a value from an array at a specific array index location that is given as an input parameter
to the method
However , this method only verifies that the given array index is less than the maximum length of the array but does not check for the
minimum value ( CWE-839 ). This will allow a negative value to be accepted as the input array index, which will result in a out of
bounds read ( CWE-125 ) and may allow access to sensitive memory . The input array index should be checked to verify that is within
the maximum and minimum range required for the array ( CWE-129 ). In this example the if statement should be modified to include a
minimum range check, as shown below .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-11899 Out-of-bounds read in IP stack used in embedded systems, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2014-0160 Chain: "Heartbleed" bug receives an inconsistent length parameter ( CWE-130 ) enabling an out-of-
bounds read ( CWE-126 ), returning memory that could include private cryptographic keys and other
sensitive data.
CVE-2021-40985 HTML conversion package has a buf fer under-read, allowing a crash
CVE-2018-10887 Chain: unexpected sign extension ( CWE-194 ) leads to integer overflow ( CWE-190 ), causing an out-of-
bounds read ( CWE-125 )
CVE-2009-2523 Chain: product does not handle when an input string is not NULL terminated ( CWE-170 ), leading to
buffer over-read ( CWE-125 ) or heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
CVE-2018-16069 Chain: series of floating-point precision errors ( CWE-1339 ) in a web browser rendering engine causes
out-of-bounds read ( CWE-125 ), giving access to cross-origin data
CVE-2004-0112 out-of-bounds read due to improper length check
CVE-2004-0183 packet with large number of specified elements cause out-of-bounds read.
CVE-2004-0221 packet with large number of specified elements cause out-of-bounds read.
CVE-2004-0184 out-of-bounds read, resultant from integer underflow
CVE-2004-1940 large length value causes out-of-bounds read
CVE-2004-0421 malformed image causes out-of-bounds read
CVE-2008-4113 OS kernel trusts userland-supplied length value, allowing reading of sensitive information
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.(bad code) Example Language: C 
int getValueFromArray(int \*array, int len, int index) {
int value;
// check that the array index is less than the maximum
// length of the array
if (index < len) {
// get the value at the specified index of the array
value = array[index];
}
// if array index is invalid then output error message
// and return value indicating error
else {
printf("Value is: %d\n", array[index]);
value = -1;
}
return value;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
// check that the array index is within the correct
// range of values for the array
if (index >= 0 && index < len) {
...3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/125.html 3/4When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
To reduce the likelihood of introducing an out-of-bounds read, ensure that you validate and ensure correct calculations for any
length argument, buf fer size calculation, or of fset. Be especially careful of relying on a sentinel (i.e. special character such as
NUL) in untrusted inputs.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that provides appropriate memory abstractions.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Out-of-bounds Read
CER T C Secure Coding ARR30-C Imprecise Do not form or use out-of-bounds pointers or array subscripts
CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C Imprecise Guarantee that library functions do not form invalid pointers
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/125.html 4/4CER T C Secure Coding EXP39-C Imprecise Do not access a variable through a pointer of an incompatible
type
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C Imprecise Guarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
CER T C Secure Coding STR32-C CWE More
AbstractDo not pass a non-null-terminated character sequence to a
library function that expects a string
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-540 Overread Buf fers
 References
[REF-1034] Raoul Strackx, Yves Younan, Pieter Philippaerts, Frank Piessens, Sven Lachmund and Thomas W alter. "Breaking the
memory secrecy assumption". ACM. 2009-03-31. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1519144.1519145 >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-1035] Fermin J. Serna. "The info leak era on software exploitation". 2012-07-25. < https://media.blackhat.com/bh-us-
12/Briefings/Serna/BH\_US\_12\_Serna\_Leak\_Era\_Slides.pdf >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications