3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1249: Application-Level Admin Tool with Inconsistent View of Underlying Operating System (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1249.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1249: Application-Level Admin T ool with Inconsistent V iew of Underlying Operating System
Weakness ID: 1249
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product provides an application for administrators to manage parts of the underlying operating system, but the application does not accurately identif
relevant entities or resources that exist in the OS; that is, the application's model of the OS's state is inconsistent with the OS's actual state.
 Extended Description
Many products provide web-based applications or other interfaces for managing the underlying operating system. This is common with cloud, network ac
devices, home networking, and other systems. When the management tool does not accurately represent what is in the OS - such as user accounts - the
administrator might not see suspicious activities that would be noticed otherwise.
For example, numerous systems utilize a web front-end for administrative control. They also of fer the ability to add, alter , and drop users with various priv
relates to the functionality of the system. A potential architectural weakness may exist where the user information reflected in the web interface does not 
users in the underlying operating system. Many web UI or REST APIs use the underlying operating system for authentication; the system's logic may also
additional set of user capabilities within configuration files and datasets for authorization capabilities. When there is a discrepancy between the user infor
UI or REST API's interface system and the underlying operating system's user listing, this may introduce a weakness into the system. For example, if an 
compromises the OS and adds a new user account - a "ghost" account - then the attacker could escape detection if the management tool does not list th
added account.
This discrepancy could be exploited in several ways:
A rogue admin could insert a new account into a system that will persist if they are terminated or wish to take action on a system that cannot be 
associated with them.
An attacker can leverage a separate command injection attack available through the web interface to insert a ghost account with shell privileges 
An attacker can leverage existing web interface APIs, manipulated in such a way that a new user is inserted into the operating system, and the u
account is either partially created or not at all.
An attacker could create an admin account which is viewable by an administrator , use this account to create the ghost account, delete logs and d
first created admin account.
Many of these attacker scenarios can be realized by leveraging separate vulnerabilities related to XSS, command injection, authentication bypass, or log
the various systems.
 Alternate T erms
Ghost in the Shell
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1250 Improper Preservation of Consistency Between Independent Representations of Shared State
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design The design might assume that the underlying OS does not change.
ImplementationAssumptions about the underlying OS might be hard-coded into the application or otherwise in external data stores in a wa
updated when the OS's state changes.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
AccountabilityTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
OtherTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1249: Application-Level Admin Tool with Inconsistent View of Underlying Operating System (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1249.html 2/2Suppose that an attacker successfully gains root privileges on a Linux system and adds a new 'user2' account:
This new user2 account would not be noticed on the web interface, if the interface does not refresh its data of available users.
It could be argued that for this specific example, an attacker with root privileges would be likely to compromise the admin tool or otherwise feed it with fal
However , this example shows how the discrepancy in critical data can help attackers to escape detection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that the admin tool refreshes its model of the underlying OS on a regular basis, and note any inconsistencies with configuration files or other da
sources that are expected to have the same data.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a lower-level Base/V aria
to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1070] Tony Martin. "Ghost in the Shell W eakness". 2020-02-13. < https://friendsglobal.com/ghost-in-the-shell/ghost-in-the-shell-weakness/ >. URL v
2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-06-06
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Tony Martin
 Modifications
Example Language: Other 
echo "user2:x:0:0::/root:/" >> /etc/passwd;
echo
"user2:\$6\$IdvyrM6VJnG8Su5U\$1gmW3Nm.IO4vxTQDQ1C8urm72JCadOHZQwqiH/nRtL8dPY80xS4Ovsv5bPCMWnXKKWwmsocSWXupUf17LB3oS.:17256:0:99
>> /etc/shadow;