3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-262: Not Using Password Aging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/262.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-262: Not Using Password Aging
Weakness ID: 262
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not have a mechanism in place for managing password aging.
 Extended Description
Password aging (or password rotation) is a policy that forces users to change their passwords after a defined time period passes,
such as every 30 or 90 days. Without mechanisms such as aging, users might not change their passwords in a timely manner .
Note that while password aging was once considered an important security feature, it has since fallen out of favor by many , because it
is not as ef fective against modern threats compared to other mechanisms such as slow hashes. In addition, forcing frequent changes
can unintentionally encourage users to select less-secure passwords. However , password aging is still in use due to factors such as
compliance requirements, e.g., Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
PeerOf 309 Use of Password System for Primary Authentication
PeerOf 324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
As passwords age, the probability that they are compromised grows.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A system does not enforce the changing of passwords every certain period.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
As part of a product's design, require users to change their passwords regularly and avoid reusing previous passwords.
Phase: Implementation
Developers might disable clipboard paste operations into password fields as a way to discourage users from pasting a password
into a clipboard. However , this might encourage users to choose less-secure passwords that are easier to type, and it canAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-262: Not Using Password Aging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/262.html 2/3reduce the usability of password managers [ REF-1294 ].
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 951 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Authentication Policy
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Not allowing password aging
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-16 Dictionary-based Password Attack
CAPEC-49 Password Brute Forcing
CAPEC-509 Kerberoasting
CAPEC-55 Rainbow Table Password Cracking
CAPEC-555 Remote Services with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-560 Use of Known Domain Credentials
CAPEC-561 Windows Admin Shares with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-565 Password Spraying
CAPEC-600 Credential Stuf fing
CAPEC-652 Use of Known Kerberos Credentials
CAPEC-653 Use of Known Operating System Credentials
CAPEC-70 Try Common or Default Usernames and Passwords
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1305] Kurt Seifried and other members of the CWE-Research mailing list. "Discussion Thread: Time to retire CWE-262 and
CWE-263". 2021-12-03. < https://www .mail-archive.com/cwe-research-list@mitre.org/msg00018.html >. URL validated: 2022-10-
11.
[REF-1289] Lance Spitzner . "Time for Password Expiration to Die". 2021-06-27. < https://www .sans.org/blog/time-for-password-
expiration-to-die/ >.
[REF-1290] Lorrie Cranor . "Time to rethink mandatory password changes". 2016-03-02. < https://www .ftc.gov/policy/advocacy-
research/tech-at-ftc/2016/03/time-rethink-mandatory-password-changes >.
[REF-1291] Eugene Spaf ford. "Security Myths and Passwords". 2006-04-19.
.
[REF-1292] National Cyber Security Centre. "Password administration for system owners". 2018-11-19.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1293] NIST . "Digital Identity Guidelines: Authentication and Lifecycle Management(SP 800-63B)". 2017-06.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1294] National Cyber Security Centre. "Let them paste passwords". 2017-01-02. < https://www .ncsc.gov .uk/blog-post/let-
them-paste-passwords >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-262: Not Using Password Aging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/262.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-12-03 Kurt Seifried, Chris Eng, G. Ann Campbell, Larry Shields, Jef frey W alton, Jason
Dryhurst-Smith, and other members of the CWE Community
Gave feedback on how to update CWE-262 and CWE-263 due to changing password management practices
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names