3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-430: Deployment of Wrong Handler (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/430.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-430: Deployment of W rong Handler
Weakness ID: 430
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The wrong "handler" is assigned to process an object.
 Extended Description
An example of deploying the wrong handler would be calling a servlet to reveal source code of a .JSP file, or automatically
"determining" type of the object even if it is contradictory to an explicitly specified type.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
PeerOf 434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
CanPrecede 433 Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 429 Handler Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0004 Source code disclosure via manipulated file extension that causes parsing by wrong DLL.
CVE-2002-0025 Web browser does not properly handle the Content-T ype header field, causing a dif ferent application to
process the document.
CVE-2000-1052 Source code disclosure by directly invoking a servlet.
CVE-2002-1742 Arbitrary Perl functions can be loaded by calling a non-existent function that activates a handler .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Perform a type check before interpreting an object.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Reject any inconsistent types, such as a file with a .GIF extension that appears to consist of PHP code.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-430: Deployment of Wrong Handler (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/430.html 2/2This weakness is usually resultant from other weaknesses.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Improper Handler Deployment
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-11 Cause W eb Server Misclassification
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "File Handlers",
Page 74. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
