3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-733: Compiler Optimization Removal or Modiﬁcation of Security-critical Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/733.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-733: Compiler Optimization Removal or Modification of Security-critical Code
Weakness ID: 733
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The developer builds a security-critical protection mechanism into the software, but the compiler optimizes the program such that the
mechanism is removed or modified.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1038 Insecure Automated Optimizations
ParentOf 14 Compiler Removal of Code to Clear Buf fers
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Class: Compiled (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads a password from the user , uses the password to connect to a back-end mainframe and then attempts to
scrub the password from memory using memset().
The code in the example will behave correctly if it is executed verbatim, but if the code is compiled using an optimizing compiler , such
as Microsoft V isual C++ .NET or GCC 3.x, then the call to memset() will be removed as a dead store because the buf fer pwd is not
used after its value is overwritten [18]. Because the buf fer pwd contains a sensitive value, the application may be vulnerable to attack
if the data are left memory resident. If attackers are able to access the correct region of memory , they may use the recovered
password to gain control of the system.
It is common practice to overwrite sensitive data manipulated in memory , such as passwords or cryptographic keys, in order to
prevent attackers from learning system secrets. However , with the advent of optimizing compilers, programs do not always behave as
their source code alone would suggest. In the example, the compiler interprets the call to memset() as dead code because the
memory being written to is not subsequently used, despite the fact that there is clearly a security motivation for the operation to occur .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void GetData(char \*MFAddr) {
char pwd[64];
if (GetPasswordFromUser(pwd, sizeof(pwd))) {
if (ConnectToMainframe(MFAddr, pwd)) {
// Interaction with mainframe
}
}
memset(pwd, 0, sizeof(pwd));
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-733: Compiler Optimization Removal or Modiﬁcation of Security-critical Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/733.html 2/2The problem here is that many compilers, and in fact many programming languages, do not take this and other security concerns into
consideration in their ef forts to improve ef ficiency .
Attackers typically exploit this type of vulnerability by using a core dump or runtime mechanism to access the memory used by a
particular application and recover the secret information. Once an attacker has access to the secret information, it is relatively
straightforward to further exploit the system and possibly compromise other resources with which the application interacts.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-1685 C compiler optimization, as allowed by specifications, removes code that is used to perform checks to
detect integer overflows.
CVE-2019-1010006 Chain: compiler optimization ( CWE-733 ) removes or modifies code used to detect integer overflow
(CWE-190 ), allowing out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 ).
 Detection Methods
Black Box
This specific weakness is impossible to detect using black box methods. While an analyst could examine memory to see that it
has not been scrubbed, an analysis of the executable would not be successful. This is because the compiler has already
removed the relevant code. Only the source code shows whether the programmer intended to clear the memory or not, so this
weakness is indistinguishable from others.
White Box
This weakness is only detectable using white box methods (see black box detection factor). Careful analysis is required to
determine if the code is likely to be removed by the compiler .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 976 SFP Secondary Cluster: Compiler
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-10 Buffer Overflow via Environment V ariables
CAPEC-24 Filter Failure through Buf fer Overflow
CAPEC-46 Overflow V ariables and Tags
CAPEC-8 Buffer Overflow in an API Call
CAPEC-9 Buffer Overflow in Local Command-Line Utilities
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "A Compiler Optimization Caveat" Page 322. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-10-01
(CWE 1.0.1, 2008-10-14)CWE Content Team MITRE
new weakness-focused entry for Research view closes the gap between 14 and 435.
 Modifications
