3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1293: Missing Source Correlation of Multiple Independent Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1293.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1293: Missing Source Correlation of Multiple Independent Data
Weakness ID: 1293
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product relies on one source of data, preventing the ability to detect if an adversary has compromised a data source.
 Extended Description
To operate successfully , a product sometimes has to implicitly trust the integrity of an information source. When information is
implicitly signed, one can ensure that the data was not tampered in transit. This does not ensure that the information source was not
compromised when responding to a request. By requesting information from multiple sources, one can check if all of the data is the
same. If they are not, the system should report the information sources that respond with a dif ferent or minority value as potentially
compromised. If there are not enough answers to provide a majority or plurality of responses, the system should report all of the
sources as potentially compromised. As the seriousness of the impact of incorrect integrity increases, so should the number of
independent information sources that would need to be queried.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
PeerOf 654 Reliance on a Single Factor in a Security Decision
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis flaw could be introduced during the design of the application or misconfiguration at run time by only
specifying a single point of validation.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during hardware implementation, then identified later during Testing or
System Configuration phases.
OperationThis weakness could be introduced by intentionally failing all but one of the devices used to retrieve the
data or by failing the devices that validate the data.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker that may be able to execute a single Person-in-the-Middle attack can subvert a check of
an external oracle (e.g. the ACME protocol check for a file on a website), and thus inject an arbitrary
reply to the single perspective request to the external oracle.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Design system to use a Practical Byzantine fault method, to request information from multiple sources to verify the data and
report on potentially compromised information sources.
Phase: ImplementationAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1293: Missing Source Correlation of Multiple Independent Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1293.html 2/2Failure to use a Practical Byzantine fault method when requesting data. Lack of place to report potentially compromised
information sources. Relying on non-independent information sources for integrity checking. Failure to report information
sources that respond in the minority to incident response procedures.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1125] moparisthebest. "V alidation V ulnerabilities". 2015-06-05.
.
[REF-1126] Josh Aas, Daniel McCarney and Roland Shoemaker . "Multi-Perspective V alidation Improves Domain V alidation
Security". 2020-02-19. < https://letsencrypt.org/2020/02/19/multi-perspective-validation.html >.
[REF-1127] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov . "Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance and Proactive Recovery". 2002-11-04.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-03
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Kurt Seifried Cloud Security Alliance
 Modifications
