3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-296: Improper Following of a Certiﬁcate's Chain of Trust (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/296.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-296: Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of T rust
Weakness ID: 296
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not follow , or incorrectly follows, the chain of trust for a certificate back to a trusted root certificate, resulting in
incorrect trust of any resource that is associated with that certificate.
 Extended Description
If a system does not follow the chain of trust of a certificate to a root server , the certificate loses all usefulness as a metric of trust.
Essentially , the trust gained from a certificate is derived from a chain of trust -- with a reputable trusted entity at the end of that list.
The end user must trust that reputable source, and this reputable source must vouch for the resource in question through the medium
of the certificate.
In some cases, this trust traverses several entities who vouch for one another . The entity trusted by the end user is at one end of this
trust chain, while the certificate-wielding resource is at the other end of the chain. If the user receives a certificate at the end of one of
these trust chains and then proceeds to check only that the first link in the chain, no real trust has been derived, since the entire chain
must be traversed back to a trusted source to verify the certificate.
There are several ways in which the chain of trust might be broken, including but not limited to:
Any certificate in the chain is self-signed, unless it the root.
Not every intermediate certificate is checked, starting from the original certificate all the way up to the root certificate.
An intermediate, CA-signed certificate does not have the expected Basic Constraints or other important extensions.
The root certificate has been compromised or authorized to the wrong party .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
ChildOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
PeerOf 370 Missing Check for Certificate Revocation after Initial Check
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationWhen the product uses certificate pinning, the developer might not properly validate all relevant components of
the certificate before pinning the certificate. This can make it dif ficult or expensive to test after the pinning is
complete.
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
Exploitation of this flaw can lead to the trust of data that may have originated with a spoofed
source.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Data, requests, or actions taken by the attacking entity can be carried out as a spoofed benign
entity .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
LowAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-296: Improper Following of a Certiﬁcate's Chain of Trust (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/296.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code checks the certificate of a connected peer .
In this case, because the certificate is self-signed, there was no external authority that could prove the identity of the host. The
program could be communicating with a dif ferent system that is spoofing the host, e.g. by poisoning the DNS cache or using an
Adversary-in-the-Middle (AITM) attack to modify the traf fic from server to client.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2016-2402 Server allows bypass of certificate pinning by sending a chain of trust that includes a trusted CA that is
not pinned.
CVE-2008-4989 Verification function trusts certificate chains in which the last certificate is self-signed.
CVE-2012-5821 Chain: W eb browser uses a TLS-related function incorrectly , preventing it from verifying that a server's
certificate is signed by a trusted certification authority (CA).
CVE-2009-3046 Web browser does not check if any intermediate certificates are revoked.
CVE-2009-0265 chain: DNS server does not correctly check return value from the OpenSSL EVP\_V erifyFinal function
allows bypass of validation of the certificate chain.
CVE-2009-0124 chain: incorrect check of return value from the OpenSSL EVP\_V erifyFinal function allows bypass of
validation of the certificate chain.
CVE-2002-0970 File-transfer software does not validate Basic Constraints of an intermediate CA-signed certificate.
CVE-2002-0862 Cryptographic API, as used in web browsers, mail clients, and other software, does not properly
validate Basic Constraints.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that proper certificate checking is included in the system design.
Phase: Implementation
Understand, and properly implement all checks necessary to ensure the integrity of certificate trust integrity .
Phase: Implementation
If certificate pinning is being used, ensure that all relevant properties of the certificate are fully validated before the certificate is
pinned, including the full chain of trust.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 948 SFP Secondary Cluster: Digital Certificate
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1382 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Emerging Energy Technologies
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if ((cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) && host)
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if ((X509\_V\_OK==foo) || X509\_V\_ERR\_SELF\_SIGNED\_CERT\_IN\_CHAIN==foo))
// certificate looks good, host can be trusted3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-296: Improper Following of a Certiﬁcate's Chain of Trust (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/296.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to follow chain of trust in certificate validation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-245] Martin Georgiev , Subodh Iyengar , Suman Jana, Rishita Anubhai, Dan Boneh and V italy Shmatikov . "The Most
Dangerous Code in the W orld: V alidating SSL Certificates in Non-Browser Software". 2012-10-25.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names