3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-447: Unimplemented or Unsupported Feature in UI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/447.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-447: Unimplemented or Unsupported Feature in UI
Weakness ID: 447
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A UI function for a security feature appears to be supported and gives feedback to the user that suggests that it is supported, but the
underlying functionality is not implemented.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 446 UI Discrepancy for Security Feature
ChildOf 671 Lack of Administrator Control over Security
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-0127 GUI configuration tool does not enable a security option when a checkbox is selected, although that
option is honored when manually set in the configuration file.
CVE-2001-0863 Router does not implement a specific keyword when it is used in an ACL, allowing filter bypass.
CVE-2001-0865 Router does not implement a specific keyword when it is used in an ACL, allowing filter bypass.
CVE-2004-0979 Web browser does not properly modify security setting when the user sets it.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Perform functionality testing before deploying the application.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 995 SFP Secondary Cluster: Feature
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-UseAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-447: Unimplemented or Unsupported Feature in UI (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/447.html 2/2Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This issue needs more study , as there are not many examples. It is not clear whether it is primary or resultant.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unimplemented or unsupported feature in UI
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications