3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-511: Logic/Time Bomb (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/511.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-511: Logic/T ime Bomb
Weakness ID: 511
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains code that is designed to disrupt the legitimate operation of the product (or its environment) when a certain time
passes, or when a certain logical condition is met.
 Extended Description
When the time bomb or logic bomb is detonated, it may perform a denial of service such as crashing the system, deleting critical data,
or degrading system response time. This bomb might be placed within either a replicating or non-replicating Trojan horse.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 506 Embedded Malicious Code
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Other
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Typical examples of triggers include system date or time mechanisms, random number generators, and counters that wait for an
opportunity to launch their payload. When triggered, a time-bomb may deny service by crashing the system, deleting files, or
degrading system response-time.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Installation
Always verify the integrity of the product that is being installed.
Phase: T esting
Conduct a code coverage analysis using live testing, then closely inspect any code that is not covered.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 904 SFP Primary Cluster: Malware
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-511: Logic/Time Bomb (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/511.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Landwehr Logic/T ime Bomb
 References
[REF-172] Chris W ysopal. "Mobile App Top 10 List". 2010-12-13. < https://www .veracode.com/blog/2010/12/mobile-app-top-10-
list>. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Landwehr
 Modifications