3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-91: XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/91.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-91: XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection)
Weakness ID: 91
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly neutralize special elements that are used in XML, allowing attackers to modify the syntax, content, or
commands of the XML before it is processed by an end system.
 Extended Description
Within XML, special elements could include reserved words or characters such as "<", ">", """, and "&", which could then be used to
add new data or modify XML syntax.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
ParentOf 643 Improper Neutralization of Data within XPath Expressions ('XPath Injection')
ParentOf 652 Improper Neutralization of Data within XQuery Expressions ('XQuery Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-91: XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/91.html 2/3
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 713 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A2 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 727 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A6 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 810 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 929 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1027 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
In vulnerability theory terms, this is a representation-specific case of a Data/Directive Boundary Error .
Research Gap
Under-reported. This is likely found regularly by third party code auditors, but there are very few publicly reported examples.
Maintenance
The description for this entry is generally applicable to XML, but the name includes "blind XPath injection" which is more closely
associated with CWE-643 . Therefore this entry might need to be deprecated or converted to a general category - although injection
into raw XML is not covered by CWE-643 or CWE-652 .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER XML injection (aka Blind Xpath injection)
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A2 CWE More Specific Injection Flaws
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A6 CWE More Specific Injection Flaws
WASC 23 XML Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-250 XML Injection
CAPEC-83 XPath Injection
 References
[REF-882] Amit Klein. "Blind XPath Injection". 2004-05-19.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 17, "XML Injection",
Page 1069. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-91: XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/91.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications