3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-602: Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/602.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-602: Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security
Weakness ID: 602
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product is composed of a server that relies on the client to implement a mechanism that is intended to protect the server .
 Extended Description
When the server relies on protection mechanisms placed on the client side, an attacker can modify the client-side behavior to bypass
the protection mechanisms, resulting in potentially unexpected interactions between the client and server . The consequences will
vary, depending on what the mechanisms are trying to protect.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 565 Reliance on Cookies without V alidation and Integrity Checking
ParentOf 603 Use of Client-Side Authentication
PeerOf 290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
PeerOf 300 Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint
PeerOf 836 Use of Password Hash Instead of Password for Authentication
CanPrecede 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Architecture and DesignConsider a product that consists of two or more processes or nodes that must interact closely , such as
a client/server model. If the product uses protection schemes in the client in order to defend from
attacks against the server , and the server does not use the same schemes, then an attacker could
modify the client in a way that bypasses those schemes. This is a fundamental design flaw that is
primary to many weaknesses.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Client-side validation checks can be easily bypassed, allowing malformed or unexpected input to
pass into the application, potentially as trusted data. This may lead to unexpected states, behaviors
and possibly a resulting crash.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Client-side checks for authentication can be easily bypassed, allowing clients to escalate their
access levels and perform unintended actions.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-602: Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/602.html 2/4This example contains client-side code that checks if the user authenticated successfully before sending a command. The server-side
code performs the authentication in one step, and executes the command in a separate step.
CLIENT -SIDE (client.pl)
SERVER-SIDE (server .pl):
The server accepts 2 commands, "AUTH" which authenticates the user , and "CHANGE-ADDRESS" which updates the address field
for the username. The client performs the authentication and only sends a CHANGE-ADDRESS for that user if the authentication
succeeds. Because the client has already performed the authentication, the server assumes that the username in the CHANGE-
ADDRESS is the same as the authenticated user . An attacker could modify the client by removing the code that sends the "AUTH"
command and simply executing the CHANGE-ADDRESS.
Example 2
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used client-side authentication in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-33139 SCADA system only uses client-side authentication, allowing adversaries to impersonate other users.
CVE-2006-6994 ASP program allows upload of .asp files by bypassing client-side checks.
CVE-2007-0163 steganography products embed password information in the carrier file, which can be extracted from a
modified client.
CVE-2007-0164 steganography products embed password information in the carrier file, which can be extracted from a
modified client.
CVE-2007-0100 client allows server to modify client's configuration and overwrite arbitrary files.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side.
Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been performed, or by changing the
client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted to the server .(good code) Example Language: Perl 
$server = "server.example.com";
$username = AskForUserName();
$password = AskForPassword();
$address = AskForAddress();
$sock = OpenSocket($server, 1234);
writeSocket($sock, "AUTH $username $password\n");
$resp = readSocket($sock);
if ($resp eq "success") {
# username/pass is valid, go ahead and update the info!
writeSocket($sock, "CHANGE-ADDRESS $username $address\n";
}
else {
print "ERROR: Invalid Authentication!\n";
}
(bad code) 
$sock = acceptSocket(1234);
($cmd, $args) = ParseClientRequest($sock);
if ($cmd eq "AUTH") {
($username, $pass) = split(/\s+/, $args, 2);
$result = AuthenticateUser($username, $pass);
writeSocket($sock, "$result\n");
# does not close the socket on failure; assumes the
# user will try again
}
elsif ($cmd eq "CHANGE-ADDRESS") {
if (validateAddress($args)) {
$res = UpdateDatabaseRecord($username, "address", $args);
writeSocket($sock, "SUCCESS\n");
}
else {
writeSocket($sock, "FAILURE -- address is malformed\n");
}
}3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-602: Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/602.html 3/4Even though client-side checks provide minimal benefits with respect to server-side security , they are still useful. First, they can
support intrusion detection. If the server receives input that should have been rejected by the client, then it may be an indication
of an attack. Second, client-side error-checking can provide helpful feedback to the user about the expectations for valid input.
Third, there may be a reduction in server-side processing time for accidental input errors, although this is typically a small
savings.
Phase: Architecture and Design
If some degree of trust is required between the two entities, then use integrity checking and strong authentication to ensure that
the inputs are coming from a trusted source. Design the product so that this trust is managed in a centralized fashion, especially
if there are complex or numerous communication channels, in order to reduce the risks that the implementer will mistakenly omit
a check in a single code path.
Phase: T esting
Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz
testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow down, but it should not become
unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Phase: T esting
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A1 CWE More Specific Unvalidated Input
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-162 Manipulating Hidden Fields
CAPEC-202 Create Malicious Client
CAPEC-207 Removing Important Client Functionality
CAPEC-208 Removing/short-circuiting 'Purse' logic: removing/mutating 'cash' decrements
CAPEC-21 Exploitation of Trusted Identifiers
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
CAPEC-383 Harvesting Information via API Event Monitoring
CAPEC-384 Application API Message Manipulation via Man-in-the-Middle
CAPEC-385 Transaction or Event Tampering via Application API Manipulation
CAPEC-386 Application API Navigation Remapping
CAPEC-387 Navigation Remapping To Propagate Malicious Content
CAPEC-388 Application API Button Hijacking
 References
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-602: Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/602.html 4/4[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 23, "Client-Side Security Is an Oxymoron" Page
687. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names