3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-927: Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/927.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-927: Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication
Weakness ID: 927
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The Android application uses an implicit intent for transmitting sensitive data to other applications.
 Extended Description
Since an implicit intent does not specify a particular application to receive the data, any application can process the intent by using an
Intent Filter for that intent. This can allow untrusted applications to obtain sensitive data. There are two variations on the standard
broadcast intent, ordered and sticky .
Ordered broadcast intents are delivered to a series of registered receivers in order of priority as declared by the Receivers. A
malicious receiver can give itself a high priority and cause a denial of service by stopping the broadcast from propagating further
down the chain. There is also the possibility of malicious data modification, as a receiver may also alter the data within the Intent
before passing it on to the next receiver . The downstream components have no way of asserting that the data has not been altered
earlier in the chain.
Sticky broadcast intents remain accessible after the initial broadcast. An old sticky intent will be broadcast again to any new receivers
that register for it in the future, greatly increasing the chances of information exposure over time. Also, sticky broadcasts cannot be
protected by permissions that may apply to other kinds of intents.
In addition, any broadcast intent may include a URI that references data that the receiving component does not normally have the
privileges to access. The sender of the intent can include special privileges that grant the receiver read or write access to the specific
URI included in the intent. A malicious receiver that intercepts this intent will also gain those privileges and be able to read or write the
resource at the specified URI.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Other applications, possibly untrusted, can read the data that is of fered through the Intent.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
The application may handle responses from untrusted applications on the device, which could cause
it to perform unexpected or unauthorized actions.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This application wants to create a user account in several trusted applications using one broadcast intent:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-927: Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/927.html 2/3This application assumes only the trusted applications will be listening for the action. A malicious application can register for this
action and intercept the user's login information, as below:
When a broadcast contains sensitive information, create an allowlist of applications that can receive the action using the application's
manifest file, or programmatically send the intent to each individual intended receiver .
Example 2
This application interfaces with a web service that requires a separate user login. It creates a sticky intent, so that future trusted
applications that also use the web service will know who the current user is:
Sticky broadcasts can be read by any application at any time, and so should never contain sensitive information such as a username.
Example 3
This application is sending an ordered broadcast, asking other applications to open a URL:
Any application in the broadcast chain may alter the data within the intent. This malicious application is altering the URL to point to an
attack site:
The final receiving application will then open the attack URL. Where possible, send intents to specific trusted applications instead of
using a broadcast chain.
Example 4
This application sends a special intent with a flag that allows the receiving application to read a data file for backup purposes.Intent intent = new Intent();
intent.setAction("com.example.CreateUser");
intent.putExtra("Username", uname\_string);
intent.putExtra("Password", pw\_string);
sendBroadcast(intent);
(attack code) Example Language: Java 
IntentFilter filter = new IntentFilter("com.example.CreateUser");
MyReceiver receiver = new MyReceiver();
registerReceiver(receiver, filter);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Intent intent = new Intent();
intent.setAction("com.example.service.UserExists");
intent.putExtra("Username", uname\_string);
sendStickyBroadcast(intent);
(attack code) Example Language: Java 
IntentFilter filter = new IntentFilter("com.example.service.UserExists");
MyReceiver receiver = new MyReceiver();
registerReceiver(receiver, filter);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Intent intent = new Intent();
intent.setAction("com.example.OpenURL");
intent.putExtra("URL\_TO\_OPEN", url\_string);
sendOrderedBroadcastAsUser(intent);
(attack code) Example Language: Java 
public class CallReceiver extends BroadcastReceiver {
@Override
public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {
String Url = intent.getStringExtra(Intent.URL\_TO\_OPEN);
attackURL = "www.example.com/attack?" + Url;
setResultData(attackURL);
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Intent intent = new Intent();
intent.setAction("com.example.BackupUserData");
intent.setData(file\_uri);
intent.addFlags(FLAG\_GRANT\_READ\_URI\_PERMISSION);
sendBroadcast(intent);3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-927: Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/927.html 3/3Any malicious application can register to receive this intent. Because of the FLAG\_GRANT\_READ\_URI\_PERMISSION included with
the intent, the malicious receiver code can read the user's data.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-4903 An Android application does not use FLAG\_IMMUT ABLE when creating a PendingIntent.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
If the application only requires communication with its own components, then the destination is always known, and an explicit
intent could be used.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-922] Erika Chin, Adrienne Porter Felt, Kate Greenwood and David W agner . "Analyzing Inter-Application Communication in
Android". 3.2.1. < http://www .eecs.berkeley .edu/~daw/papers/intents-mobisys11.pdf >.
[REF-923] Android Open Source Project. "Security Tips". 2013-07-16. < https://developer .android.com/training/articles/security-
tips#ContentProviders >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-07-09
(CWE 2.5, 2013-07-17)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
(attack code) Example Language: Java 
public class CallReceiver extends BroadcastReceiver {
@Override
public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {
Uri userData = intent.getData();
stealUserData(userData);
}
}