3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-436: Interpretation Conﬂict (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/436.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-436: Interpretation Conflict
Weakness ID: 436
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
Product A handles inputs or steps dif ferently than Product B, which causes A to perform incorrect actions based on its perception of
B's state.
 Extended Description
This is generally found in proxies, firewalls, anti-virus software, and other intermediary devices that monitor , allow , deny , or modify
traffic based on how the client or server is expected to behave.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 435 Improper Interaction Between Multiple Correctly-Behaving Entities
ParentOf 86 Improper Neutralization of Invalid Characters in Identifiers in W eb Pages
ParentOf 113 Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP Request/Response
Splitting')
ParentOf 115 Misinterpretation of Input
ParentOf 437 Incomplete Model of Endpoint Features
ParentOf 444 Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling')
ParentOf 626 Null Byte Interaction Error (Poison Null Byte)
ParentOf 650 Trusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side
PeerOf 351 Insuf ficient Type Distinction
PeerOf 434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The paper "Insertion, Evasion, and Denial of Service: Eluding Network Intrusion Detection" [ REF-428 ] shows that OSes varied widely
in how they manage unusual packets, which made it dif ficult or impossible for intrusion detection systems to properly detect certain
attacker manipulations that took advantage of these OS dif ferences.
Example 2
Null characters have dif ferent interpretations in Perl and C, which have security consequences when Perl invokes C functions. Similar
problems have been reported in ASP [REF-429 ] and PHP .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1215 Bypass filters or poison web cache using requests with multiple Content-Length headers, a non-
standard behavior .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-436: Interpretation Conﬂict (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/436.html 2/2CVE-2002-0485 Anti-virus product allows bypass via Content-T ype and Content-Disposition headers that are mixed
case, which are still processed by some clients.
CVE-2002-1978 FTP clients sending a command with "P ASV" in the argument can cause firewalls to misinterpret the
server's error as a valid response, allowing filter bypass.
CVE-2002-1979 FTP clients sending a command with "P ASV" in the argument can cause firewalls to misinterpret the
server's error as a valid response, allowing filter bypass.
CVE-2002-0637 Virus product bypass with spaces between MIME header fields and the ":" separator , a non-standard
message that is accepted by some clients.
CVE-2002-1777 AV product detection bypass using inconsistency manipulation (file extension in MIME Content-T ype
vs. Content-Disposition field).
CVE-2005-3310 CMS system allows uploads of files with GIF/JPG extensions, but if they contain HTML, Internet
Explorer renders them as HTML instead of images.
CVE-2005-4260 Interpretation conflict allows XSS via invalid "<" when a ">" is expected, which is treated as ">" by
many web browsers.
CVE-2005-4080 Interpretation conflict (non-standard behavior) enables XSS because browser ignores invalid
characters in the middle of tags.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 957 SFP Secondary Cluster: Protocol Error
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Multiple Interpretation Error (MIE)
WASC 27 HTTP Response Smuggling
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-105 HTTP Request Splitting
CAPEC-273 HTTP Response Smuggling
CAPEC-34 HTTP Response Splitting
 References
[REF-427] Steve Christey . "On Interpretation Conflict V ulnerabilities". Bugtraq. 2005-11-03.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-428] Thomas H. Ptacek and Timothy N. Newsham. "Insertion, Evasion, and Denial of Service: Eluding Network Intrusion
Detection". 1998-01. < https://insecure.org/stf/secnet\_ids/secnet\_ids.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-429] Brett Moore. "0x00 vs ASP file upload scripts". 2004-07-13. < http://www .security-
assessment.com/Whitepapers/0x00\_vs\_ASP\_File\_Uploads.pdf >.
[REF-430] Rain Forest Puppy . "Poison NULL byte". Phrack.
[REF-431] David F . Skoll. "Re: Corsaire Security Advisory - Multiple vendor MIME RFC2047 encoding". Bugtraq. 2004-09-15.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
