3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-776: Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/776.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-776: Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity
Expansion')
Weakness ID: 776
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses XML documents and allows their structure to be defined with a Document Type Definition (DTD), but it does not
properly control the number of recursive definitions of entities.
 Extended Description
If the DTD contains a large number of nested or recursive entities, this can lead to explosive growth of data when parsed, causing a
denial of service.
 Alternate T erms
XEE: XEE is the acronym commonly used for XML Entity Expansion.
Billion Laughs Attack
XML Bomb: While the "XML Bomb" term was used in the early years of knowledge of this issue, the XEE term
seems to be more commonly used.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 405 Asymmetric Resource Consumption (Amplification)
ChildOf 674 Uncontrolled Recursion
CanFollow 827 Improper Control of Document Type Definition
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
XML (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
If parsed, recursive entity references allow the attacker to expand data exponentially , quickly consuming
all system resources.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The DTD and the very brief XML below illustrate what is meant by an XML bomb. The ZERO entity contains one character , the letter
A. The choice of entity name ZERO is being used to indicate length equivalent to that exponent on two, that is, the length of ZERO isAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-776: Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/776.html 2/32^0. Similarly , ONE refers to ZERO twice, therefore the XML parser will expand ONE to a length of 2, or 2^1. Ultimately , we reach
entity THIR TYTWO, which will expand to 2^32 characters in length, or 4 GB, probably consuming far more data than expected.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-3281 XEE in XML-parsing library .
CVE-2011-3288 XML bomb / XEE in enterprise communication product.
CVE-2011-1755 "Billion laughs" attack in XMPP server daemon.
CVE-2009-1955 XML bomb in web server module
CVE-2003-1564 Parsing library allows XML bomb
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Operation
If possible, prohibit the use of DTDs or use an XML parser that limits the expansion of recursive DTD entities.
Phase: Implementation
Before parsing XML files with associated DTDs, scan for recursive entity declarations and do not continue parsing potentially
explosive content.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1030 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A4 - XML External Entities (XXE)
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 44 XML Entity Expansion
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-197 Exponential Data Expansion
 References
(attack code) Example Language: XML 
xml version="1.0"?



...

]>
&THIRTYTWO3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-776: Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/776.html 3/3[REF-676] Amit Klein. "Multiple vendors XML parser (and SOAP/W ebServices server) Denial of Service attack using DTD". 2002-
12-16. < https://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2002/Dec/229 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-677] Rami Jaamour . "XML security: Preventing XML bombs". 2006-02-22.
.
[REF-678] Didier Stevens. "Dismantling an XML-Bomb". 2008-09-23. < https://blog.didierstevens.com/2008/09/23/dismantling-an-
xml-bomb/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-679] Robert Auger . "XML Entity Expansion".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-680] Elliotte Rusty Harold. "T ip: Configure SAX parsers for secure processing". 2005-05-27.
. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-500] Bryan Sullivan. "XML Denial of Service Attacks and Defenses". 2009-09. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/november/xml-denial-of-service-attacks-and-defenses >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-682] Blaise Doughan. "Preventing Entity Expansion Attacks in JAXB". 2011-03-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-06-30
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names