3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1240.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation
Weakness ID: 1240
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
To fulfill the need for a cryptographic primitive, the product implements a cryptographic algorithm using a non-standard, unproven, or
disallowed/non-compliant cryptographic implementation.
 Extended Description
Cryptographic protocols and systems depend on cryptographic primitives (and associated algorithms) as their basic building blocks.
Some common examples of primitives are digital signatures, one-way hash functions, ciphers, and public key cryptography; however ,
the notion of "primitive" can vary depending on point of view . See "T erminology Notes" for further explanation of some concepts.
Cryptographic primitives are defined to accomplish one very specific task in a precisely defined and mathematically reliable fashion.
For example, suppose that for a specific cryptographic primitive (such as an encryption routine), the consensus is that the primitive
can only be broken after trying out N dif ferent inputs (where the larger the value of N, the stronger the cryptography). For an
encryption scheme like AES-256, one would expect N to be so large as to be infeasible to execute in a reasonable amount of time.
If a vulnerability is ever found that shows that one can break a cryptographic primitive in significantly less than the expected number
of attempts, then that primitive is considered weakened (or sometimes in extreme cases, colloquially it is "broken"). As a result,
anything using this cryptographic primitive would now be considered insecure or risky . Thus, even breaking or weakening a seemingly
small cryptographic primitive has the potential to render the whole system vulnerable, due to its reliance on the primitive. A historical
example can be found in TLS when using DES. One would colloquially call DES the cryptographic primitive for transport encryption in
this version of TLS. In the past, DES was considered strong, because no weaknesses were found in it; importantly , DES has a key
length of 56 bits. Trying N=2^56 keys was considered impractical for most actors. Unfortunately , attacking a system with 56-bit keys is
now practical via brute force, which makes defeating DES encryption practical. It is now practical for an adversary to read any
information sent under this version of TLS and use this information to attack the system. As a result, it can be claimed that this use of
TLS is weak, and that any system depending on TLS with DES could potentially render the entire system vulnerable to attack.
Cryptographic primitives and associated algorithms are only considered safe after extensive research and review from experienced
cryptographers from academia, industry , and government entities looking for any possible flaws. Furthermore, cryptographic primitives
and associated algorithms are frequently reevaluated for safety when new mathematical and attack techniques are discovered. As a
result and over time, even well-known cryptographic primitives can lose their compliance status with the discovery of novel attacks
that might either defeat the algorithm or reduce its robustness significantly .
If ad-hoc cryptographic primitives are implemented, it is almost certain that the implementation will be vulnerable to attacks that are
well understood by cryptographers, resulting in the exposure of sensitive information and other consequences.
This weakness is even more dif ficult to manage for hardware-implemented deployment of cryptographic algorithms. First, because
hardware is not patchable as easily as software, any flaw discovered after release and production typically cannot be fixed without a
recall of the product. Secondly , the hardware product is often expected to work for years, during which time computation power
available to the attacker only increases. Therefore, for hardware implementations of cryptographic primitives, it is absolutely essential
that only strong, proven cryptographic primitives are used.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1205 Security Primitives and Cryptography Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness is primarily introduced during the architecture and design phase as risky primitives are
included.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1240.html 2/5ImplementationEven in cases where the Architectural phase properly specifies a cryptographically secure design, the
design may be changed during implementation due to unforeseen constraints.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Incorrect usage of crypto primitives could render the supposedly encrypted data as unencrypted
plaintext in the worst case.High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Re-using random values may compromise security .
While an LFSR may provide pseudo-random number generation service, the entropy (measure of randomness) of the resulting output
may be less than that of an accepted DRNG (like that used in dev/urandom). Thus, using an LFSR weakens the strength of the
cryptographic system, because it may be possible for an attacker to guess the LFSR output and subsequently the encryption key .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-4778 software uses MD5, which is less safe than the default SHA-256 used by related products
CVE-2005-2946 Default configuration of product uses MD5 instead of stronger algorithms that are available, simplifying
forgery of certificates.
CVE-2019-3907 identity card uses MD5 hash of a salt and password
CVE-2021-34687 personal key is transmitted over the network using a substitution cipher
CVE-2020-14254 product does not disable TLS-RSA cipher suites, allowing decryption of traf fic if TLS 2.0 and secure
ciphers are not enabled.
CVE-2019-1543 SSL/TLS library generates 16-byte nonces but reduces them to 12 byte nonces for the ChaCha20-
Poly1305 cipher , converting them in a way that violates the cipher's requirements for unique nonces.
CVE-2017-9267 LDAP interface allows use of weak ciphers
CVE-2017-7971 SCADA product allows "use of outdated cipher suites"
CVE-2020-6616 Chip implementing Bluetooth uses a low-entropy PRNG instead of a hardware RNG, allowing spoofing.
CVE-2019-1715 security product has insuf ficient entropy in the DRBG, allowing collisions and private key discovery
CVE-2014-4192 Dual\_EC\_DRBG implementation in RSA toolkit does not correctly handle certain byte requests,
simplifying plaintext recovery
CVE-2007-6755 Recommendation for Dual\_EC\_DRBG algorithm contains point Q constants that could simplify
decryption
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Require compliance with the strongest-available recommendations from trusted parties, and require that compliance must be
kept up-to-date, since recommendations evolve over time. For example, US government systems require FIPS 140-3
certification, which supersedes FIPS 140-2 [ REF-1192 ] [REF-1226 ].
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that the architecture/design uses the strongest-available primitives and algorithms from trusted parties. For example, US
government systems require FIPS 140-3 certification, which supersedes FIPS 140-2 [ REF-1192 ] [REF-1226 ].
(bad code) 
Suppose an Encryption algorithm needs a random value for a key. Instead of using a DRNG (Deterministic Random Number Generator),
the designer uses a linear-feedback shift register (LFSR) to generate the value.
(good code) 
If a cryptographic algorithm expects a random number as its input, provide one. Do not provide a pseudo-random value.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1240.html 3/5Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not develop custom or private cryptographic algorithms. They will likely be exposed to attacks that are well-understood by
cryptographers. As with all cryptographic mechanisms, the source code should be available for analysis. If the algorithm may be
compromised when attackers find out how it works, then it is especially weak.
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
Phase: Architecture and Design
Try not to use cryptographic algorithms in novel ways or with new modes of operation even when you "know" it is secure. For
example, using SHA-2 chaining to create a 1-time pad for encryption might sound like a good idea, but one should not do this.
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that the design can replace one cryptographic primitive or algorithm with another in the next generation ("cryptographic
agility"). Where possible, use wrappers to make the interfaces uniform. This will make it easier to upgrade to stronger
algorithms. This is especially important for hardware, which can be more dif ficult to upgrade quickly than software; design the
hardware at a replaceable block level.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not use outdated or non-compliant cryptography algorithms. Some older algorithms, once thought to require a billion years of
computing time, can now be broken in days or hours. This includes MD4, MD5, SHA1, DES, and other algorithms that were
once regarded as strong [ REF-267 ].
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Do not use a linear-feedback shift register (LFSR) or other legacy methods as a substitute for an accepted and standard
Random Number Generator .
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Do not use a checksum as a substitute for a cryptographically generated hash.
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted cryptographic library or framework. Industry-standard implementations will save development time and are more
likely to avoid errors that can occur during implementation of cryptographic algorithms. However , the library/framework could be
used incorrectly during implementation.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
When using industry-approved techniques, use them correctly . Don't cut corners by skipping resource-intensive steps ( CWE-
325). These steps are often essential for the prevention of common attacks.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Do not store keys in areas accessible to untrusted agents. Carefully manage and protect the cryptographic keys (see CWE-320 ).
If the keys can be guessed or stolen, then the strength of the cryptography algorithm is irrelevant.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Review requirements, documentation, and product design to ensure that primitives are consistent with the strongest-available
recommendations from trusted parties. If the product appears to be using custom or proprietary implementations that have not
had suf ficient public review and approval, then this is a significant concern.
Effectiveness: High
Manual Analysis
Analyze the product to ensure that implementations for each primitive do not contain any known vulnerabilities and are not using
any known-weak algorithms, including MD4, MD5, SHA1, DES, etc.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1240.html 4/5Effectiveness: Moderate
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
For hardware, during the implementation (pre-Silicon / post-Silicon) phase, dynamic tests should be done to ensure that outputs
from cryptographic routines are indeed working properly , such as test vectors provided by NIST [REF-1236 ].
Effectiveness: Moderate
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
It needs to be determined if the output of a cryptographic primitive is lacking entropy , which is one clear sign that something
went wrong with the crypto implementation. There exist many methods of measuring the entropy of a bytestream, from
sophisticated ones (like calculating Shannon's entropy of a sequence of characters) to crude ones (by compressing it and
comparing the size of the original bytestream vs. the compressed - a truly random byte stream should not be compressible and
hence the uncompressed and compressed bytestreams should be nearly identical in size).
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Terminology for cryptography varies widely , from informal and colloquial to mathematically-defined, with dif ferent precision and
formalism depending on whether the stakeholder is a developer , cryptologist, etc. Yet there is a need for CWE to be self-consistent
while remaining understandable and acceptable to multiple audiences.
As of CWE 4.6, CWE terminology around "primitives" and "algorithms" is emerging as shown by the following example, subject to
future consultation and agreement within the CWE and cryptography communities. Suppose one wishes to send encrypted data
using a CLI tool such as OpenSSL. One might choose to use AES with a 256-bit key and require tamper protection (GCM mode, for
instance). For compatibility's sake, one might also choose the ciphertext to be formatted to the PKCS#5 standard. In this case, the
"cryptographic system" would be AES-256-GCM with PKCS#5 formatting. The "cryptographic function" would be AES-256 in the
GCM mode of operation, and the "algorithm" would be AES. Colloquially , one would say that AES (and sometimes AES-256) is the
"cryptographic primitive," because it is the algorithm that realizes the concept of symmetric encryption (without modes of operation or
other protocol related modifications). In practice, developers and architects typically refer to base cryptographic algorithms (AES,
SHA, etc.) as cryptographic primitives.
Maintenance
Since CWE 4.4, various cryptography-related entries, including CWE-327 and CWE-1240 , have been slated for extensive research,
analysis, and community consultation to define consistent terminology , improve relationships, and reduce overlap or duplication. As
of CWE 4.6, this work is still ongoing.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-97 Cryptanalysis
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1227] Wikipedia. "Cryptographic primitive". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic\_primitive >.
[REF-1226] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-2: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/2/final >.
[REF-1192] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "FIPS PUB 140-3: SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2019-03-22. < https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/fips/140/3/final >.
[REF-1236] NIST . "CA VP Testing: Individual Component Testing". Test V ectors. < https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic Primitive with a Risky Implementation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1240.html 5/5algorithm-validation-program/component-testing >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-18 Parbati K. Manna Intel
Corporation
provided detection methods and observed examples
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names