3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1272: Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Debug/Power State Transition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1272.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1272: Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Debug/Power State T ransition
Weakness ID: 1272
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a power or debug state transition, but it does not clear sensitive information that should no longer be accessible
due to changes to information access restrictions.
 Extended Description
A device or system frequently employs many power and sleep states during its normal operation (e.g., normal power , additional
power , low power , hibernate, deep sleep, etc.). A device also may be operating within a debug condition. State transitions can happen
from one power or debug state to another . If there is information available in the previous state which should not be available in the
next state and is not properly removed before the transition into the next state, sensitive information may leak from the system.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
CanPrecede 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Hardware Description Language (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
Authentication
Authorization
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
Sensitive information may be used to unlock additional capabilities of the device and take
advantage of hidden functionalities which could be used to compromise device security .High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example shows how an attacker can take advantage of an incorrect state transition.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1272: Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Debug/Power State Transition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1272.html 2/3Suppose a device is transitioning from state A to state B. During state A, it can read certain private keys from the hidden fuses that are
only accessible in state A but not in state B. The device reads the keys, performs operations using those keys, then transitions to state
B, where those private keys should no longer be accessible.
After the transition to state B, even though the private keys are no longer accessible directly from the fuses in state B, they can be
accessed indirectly by reading the memory that contains the private keys.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-12926 Product software does not set a flag as per TPM specifications, thereby preventing a failed
authorization attempt from being recorded after a loss of power .
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
During state transitions, information not needed in the next state should be removed before the transition to the next state.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Write a known pattern into each sensitive location. Enter the power/debug state in question. Read data back from the sensitive
locations. If the reads are successful, and the data is the same as the pattern that was originally written, the test fails and the
device needs to be fixed. Note that this test can likely be automated.
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Power
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-150 Collect Data from Common Resource Locations
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
CAPEC-546 Incomplete Data Deletion in a Multi-T enant Environment
 References
(bad code) 
During the transition from A to B, the device does not scrub the memory.
(good code) 
For transition from state A to state B, remove information which should not be available once the transition is complete.3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1272: Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Debug/Power State Transition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1272.html 3/3[REF-1220] Zhenyu Ning and Fengwei Zhang. "Understanding the Security of ARM Debugging Features". 2019 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy (SP). 2019-05-22. < https://www .computer .org/csdl/proceedings-
article/sp/2019/666000b156/19skgcwSgsE >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-31
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Parbati Kumar Manna, Hareesh Khattri, Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names