3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1241: Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1241.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1241: Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator
Weakness ID: 1241
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device uses an algorithm that is predictable and generates a pseudo-random number .
 Extended Description
Pseudo-random number generator algorithms are predictable because their registers have a finite number of possible states, which
eventually lead to repeating patterns. As a result, pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs) can compromise their randomness or
expose their internal state to various attacks, such as reverse engineering or tampering. It is highly recommended to use hardware-
based true random number generators (TRNGs) to ensure the security of encryption schemes. TRNGs generate unpredictable,
unbiased, and independent random numbers because they employ physical phenomena, e.g., electrical noise, as sources to generate
random numbers.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1205 Security Primitives and Cryptography Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationIn many cases, the design originally defines a cryptographically secure random number generator , but
is then changed during implementation due to unforeseen constraints.
 Applicable Platforms
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application DataHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Suppose a cryptographic function expects random value to be supplied for the crypto algorithm.
During the implementation phase, due to space constraint, a cryptographically secure random-number-generator could not be used,
and instead of using a TRNG (T rue Random Number Generator), a LFSR (Linear Feedback Shift Register) is used to generate a
random value. While an LFSR will provide a pseudo-random number , its entropy (measure of randomness) is insuf ficient for a
cryptographic algorithm.
Example 2
The example code is taken from the PRNG inside the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21 [ REF-1370 ]. The SoC implements a
pseudo-random number generator using a Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1241: Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1241.html 2/3
An example of LFSR with the polynomial function P(x) = x6+x4+x3+1 is shown in the figure.
A LFSR's input bit is determined by the output of a linear function of two or more of its previous states. Therefore, given a long cycle,
a LFSR-based PRNG will enter a repeating cycle, which is predictable.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-3692 PHP framework uses mt\_rand() function (Marsenne Twister) when generating tokens
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
A true random number generator should be specified for cryptographic algorithms.
Phase: Implementation
A true random number generator should be implemented for cryptographic algorithms.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-97 Cryptanalysis
 References
[REF-1370] "rng\_16.v". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/main/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/rand\_num/rng\_16.v#L12-L22 >. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
 Content History
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
reg in\_sr, entropy16\_valid;
reg [15:0] entropy16;
assign entropy16\_o = entropy16;
assign entropy16\_valid\_o = entropy16\_valid;
always @ (\*)
begin
in\_sr = ^ (poly\_i [15:0] & entropy16 [15:0]);
end3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1241: Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1241.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications