3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-657: Violation of Secure Design Principles (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/657.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-657: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
Weakness ID: 657
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product violates well-established principles for secure design.
 Extended Description
This can introduce resultant weaknesses or make it easier for developers to introduce related weaknesses during implementation.
Because code is centered around design, it can be resource-intensive to fix design problems.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
ParentOf 250 Execution with Unnecessary Privileges
ParentOf 636 Not Failing Securely ('Failing Open')
ParentOf 637 Unnecessary Complexity in Protection Mechanism (Not Using 'Economy of Mechanism')
ParentOf 638 Not Using Complete Mediation
ParentOf 653 Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization
ParentOf 654 Reliance on a Single Factor in a Security Decision
ParentOf 655 Insuf ficient Psychological Acceptability
ParentOf 656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
ParentOf 671 Lack of Administrator Control over Security
ParentOf 1192 Improper Identifier for IP Block used in System-On-Chip (SOC)
ParentOf 1395 Dependency on V ulnerable Third-Party Component
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Switches may revert their functionality to that of hubs when the table used to map ARP information to the switch interface overflows,
such as when under a spoofing attack. This results in traf fic being broadcast to an eavesdropper , instead of being sent only on the
relevant switch interface. To mitigate this type of problem, the developer could limit the number of ARP entries that can be recorded
for a given switch interface, while other interfaces may keep functioning normally . Configuration options can be provided on the
appropriate actions to be taken in case of a detected failure, but safe defaults should be used.
Example 2
The IPSEC specification is complex, which resulted in bugs, partial implementations, and incompatibilities between vendors.
Example 3
When executable library files are used on web servers, which is common in PHP applications, the developer might perform an access
check in any user-facing executable, and omit the access check from the library file itself. By directly requesting the library file ( CWE-
425), an attacker can bypass this access check.
Example 4
Single sign-on technology is intended to make it easier for users to access multiple resources or domains without having to
authenticate each time. While this is highly convenient for the user and attempts to address problems with psychological acceptability ,
it also means that a compromise of a user's credentials can provide immediate access to all other resources or domains.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-657: Violation of Secure Design Principles (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/657.html 2/3Example 5
The design of TCP relies on the secrecy of Initial Sequence Numbers (ISNs), as originally covered in CVE-1999-0077 [ REF-542 ]. If
ISNs can be guessed (due to predictability , CWE-330 ) or snif fed (due to lack of encryption during transmission, CWE-312 ), then an
attacker can hijack or spoof connections. Many TCP implementations have had variations of this problem over the years, including
CVE-2004-0641, CVE-2002-1463, CVE-2001-0751, CVE-2001-0328, CVE-2001-0288, CVE-2001-0163, CVE-2001-0162, CVE-2000-
0916, and CVE-2000-0328.
Example 5 References:
[REF-542] Jon Postel, Editor. "RFC: 793, TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROTOCOL". Information Sciences Institute. 1981-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07.
Example 6
The "SweynT ooth" vulnerabilities in Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) software development kits (SDK) were found to af fect multiple
Bluetooth System-on-Chip (SoC) manufacturers. These SoCs were used by many products such as medical devices, Smart Home
devices, wearables, and other IoT devices. [ REF-1314 ] [REF-1315 ]
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-6260 Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) device implements Advanced High-performance Bus (AHB)
bridges that do not require authentication for arbitrary read and write access to the BMC's physical
address space from the host, and possibly the network [ REF-1138 ].
CVE-2007-5277 The failure of connection attempts in a web browser resets DNS pin restrictions. An attacker can then
bypass the same origin policy by rebinding a domain name to a dif ferent IP address. This was an
attempt to "fail functional."
CVE-2006-7142 Hard-coded cryptographic key stored in executable program.
CVE-2007-0408 Server does not properly validate client certificates when reusing cached connections.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 975 SFP Secondary Cluster: Architecture
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar). It might have lower-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-546] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Design Principles". 2005-09-19.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-542] Jon Postel, Editor . "RFC: 793, TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROT OCOL". Information Sciences Institute. 1981-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1138] Stewart Smith. "CVE-2019-6260: Gaining control of BMC from the host processor". 2019.
.
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-657: Violation of Secure Design Principles (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/657.html 3/3[REF-1314] ICS-CER T. "ICS Alert (ICS-ALER T-20-063-01): SweynT ooth V ulnerabilities". 2020-03-04.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1315] Matheus E. Garbelini, Sudipta Chattopadhyay , Chundong W ang, Singapore University of Technology and Design.
"Unleashing Mayhem over Bluetooth Low Energy". 2020-03-04. < https://asset-group.github.io/disclosures/sweyntooth/ >. URL
validated: 2023-01-25 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications