3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 1/8
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-129: Improper V alidation of Array Index
Weakness ID: 129
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses untrusted input when calculating or using an array index, but the product does not validate or incorrectly validates
the index to ensure the index references a valid position within the array .
 Alternate T erms
out-of-bounds array index
index-out-of-range
array index underflow
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1285 Improper V alidation of Specified Index, Position, or Of fset in Input
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 789 Memory Allocation with Excessive Size V alue
CanPrecede 823 Use of Out-of-range Pointer Of fset
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Use of an index that is outside the bounds of an array will very likely result in the corruption of
relevant memory and perhaps instructions, leading to a crash, if the values are outside of the valid
memory area.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If the memory corrupted is data, rather than instructions, the system will continue to function with
improper values.
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory
Use of an index that is outside the bounds of an array can also trigger out-of-bounds read or write
operations, or operations on the wrong objects; i.e., "buf fer overflows" are not always the result. This
may result in the exposure or modification of sensitive data.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If the memory accessible by the attacker can be ef fectively controlled, it may be possible to execute
arbitrary code, as with a standard buf fer overflow and possibly without the use of large inputs if a
precise index can be controlled.
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Memory; Modify MemoryAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 2/8ConfidentialityA single fault could allow either an overflow ( CWE-788 ) or underflow ( CWE-786 ) of the array index.
What happens next will depend on the type of operation being performed out of bounds, but can
expose sensitive information, cause a system crash, or possibly lead to arbitrary code execution.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the code snippet below , an untrusted integer value is used to reference an object in an array .
If index is outside of the range of the array , this may result in an ArrayIndexOutOfBounds Exception being raised.
Example 2
The following example takes a user-supplied value to allocate an array of objects and then operates on the array .
This example attempts to build a list from a user-specified value, and even checks to ensure a non-negative value is supplied. If,
however , a 0 value is provided, the code will build an array of size 0 and then try to store a new Widget in the first location, causing an
exception to be thrown.
Example 3
In the following code, the method retrieves a value from an array at a specific array index location that is given as an input parameter
to the method
However , this method only verifies that the given array index is less than the maximum length of the array but does not check for the
minimum value ( CWE-839 ). This will allow a negative value to be accepted as the input array index, which will result in a out of
bounds read ( CWE-125 ) and may allow access to sensitive memory . The input array index should be checked to verify that is within
the maximum and minimum range required for the array ( CWE-129 ). In this example the if statement should be modified to include a
minimum range check, as shown below .(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public String getValue(int index) {
return array[index];
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private void buildList ( int untrustedListSize ){
if ( 0 > untrustedListSize ){
die("Negative value supplied for list size, die evil hacker!");
}
Widget[] list = new Widget [ untrustedListSize ];
list[0] = new Widget();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int getValueFromArray(int \*array, int len, int index) {
int value;
// check that the array index is less than the maximum
// length of the array
if (index < len) {
// get the value at the specified index of the array
value = array[index];
}
// if array index is invalid then output error message
// and return value indicating error
else {
printf("Value is: %d\n", array[index]);
value = -1;
}
return value;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
// check that the array index is within the correct
// range of values for the array
if(id>0&&id= 0 && index < len) {
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
/\* capture the sizes of all messages \*/
int getsizes(int sock, int count, int \*sizes) {
...
char buf[BUFFER\_SIZE];
int ok;
int num, size;
// read values from socket and added to sizes array
while ((ok = gen\_recv(sock, buf, sizeof(buf))) == 0)
{
// continue read from socket until buf only contains '.'
if (DOTLINE(buf))
break;
else if (sscanf(buf, "%d %d", #, &size) == 2)
sizes[num - 1] = size;
}
...
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
/\* capture the sizes of all messages \*/
int getsizes(int sock, int count, int \*sizes) {
...
char buf[BUFFER\_SIZE];
int ok;
int num, size;
// read values from socket and added to sizes array
while ((ok = gen\_recv(sock, buf, sizeof(buf))) == 0)
{
// continue read from socket until buf only contains '.'
if (DOTLINE(buf))
break;
else if (sscanf(buf, "%d %d", #, &size) == 2) {
if (num > 0 && num <= (unsigned)count)
sizes[num - 1] = size;
else
/\* warn about possible attempt to induce buffer overflow \*/
report(stderr, "Warning: ignoring bogus data for message sizes returned by server.\n");
}
}
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
// Method called from servlet to obtain product information
public String displayProductSummary(int index) {
Sti dtS Sti("")3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 4/8In this example the integer value used as the array index that is provided by the user may be outside the allowable range of indices
for the array which may provide unexpected results or cause the application to fail. The integer value used for the array index should
be validated to ensure that it is within the allowable range of indices for the array as in the following code.
An alternative in Java would be to use one of the collection objects such as ArrayList that will automatically generate an exception if
an attempt is made to access an array index that is out of bounds.
Example 6
The following example asks a user for an of fset into an array to select an item.
The programmer allows the user to specify which element in the list to select, however an attacker can provide an out-of-bounds
offset, resulting in a buf fer over-read ( CWE-126 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-0369 large ID in packet used as array index
CVE-2001-1009 negative array index as argument to POP LIST commandString productSummary = new String("");
try {
String productSummary = getProductSummary(index);
} catch (Exception ex) {...}
return productSummary;
}
public String getProductSummary(int index) {
return products[index];
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
// Method called from servlet to obtain product information
public String displayProductSummary(int index) {
String productSummary = new String("");
try {
String productSummary = getProductSummary(index);
} catch (Exception ex) {...}
return productSummary;
}
public String getProductSummary(int index) {
String productSummary = "";
if ((index >= 0) && (index < MAX\_PRODUCTS)) {
productSummary = products[index];
}
else {
System.err.println("index is out of bounds");
throw new IndexOutOfBoundsException();
}
return productSummary;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
ArrayList productArray = new ArrayList(MAX\_PRODUCTS);
...
try {
productSummary = (String) productArray.get(index);
} catch (IndexOutOfBoundsException ex) {...}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char \*items[] = {"boat", "car", "truck", "train"};
int index = GetUntrustedOffset();
printf("You selected %s\n", items[index-1]);
}3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 5/8CVE-2003-0721 Integer signedness error leads to negative array index
CVE-2004-1189 product does not properly track a count and a maximum number , which can lead to resultant array
index overflow .
CVE-2007-5756 Chain: device driver for packet-capturing software allows access to an unintended IOCTL with resultant
array index error .
CVE-2005-2456 Chain: array index error ( CWE-129 ) leads to deadlock ( CWE-833 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Use an input validation framework such as Struts or the OW ASP ESAPI V alidation API. Note that using a framework does not
automatically address all input validation problems; be mindful of weaknesses that could arise from misusing the framework
itself ( CWE-1173 ).
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Even though client-side checks provide minimal benefits with respect to server-side security , they are still useful. First, they can
support intrusion detection. If the server receives input that should have been rejected by the client, then it may be an indication
of an attack. Second, client-side error-checking can provide helpful feedback to the user about the expectations for valid input.
Third, there may be a reduction in server-side processing time for accidental input errors, although this is typically a small
savings.
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, Ada allows the programmer to constrain the values of a variable and languages such as Java and Ruby will allow
the programmer to handle exceptions when an out-of-bounds index is accessed.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 6/8denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When accessing a user-controlled array index, use a stringent range of values that are within the target array . Make sure that
you do not allow negative values to be used. That is, verify the minimum as well as the maximum of the range of acceptable
values.
Phase: Implementation
Be especially careful to validate all input when invoking code that crosses language boundaries, such as from an interpreted
language to native code. This could create an unexpected interaction between the language boundaries. Ensure that you are not
violating any of the expectations of the language with which you are interfacing. For example, even though Java may not be
susceptible to buf fer overflows, providing a large argument in a call to native code might trigger an overflow .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
The most common condition situation leading to an out-of-bounds array index is the use of loop index variables as
buffer indexes. If the end condition for the loop is subject to a flaw , the index can grow or shrink unbounded,
therefore causing a buf fer overflow or underflow . Another common situation leading to this condition is the use of a
function's return value, or the resulting value of a calculation directly as an index in to a buf fer.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting out-of-bounds memory
operations. This can make it dif ficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an analysis
tool might report array index errors that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run with
setuid or other special privileges.
Effectiveness: High
Note: This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Black Box
Black box methods might not get the needed code coverage within limited time constraints, and a dynamic test might not
produce any noticeable side ef fects even if it is successful.
 Affected Resources
Memory3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 7/8
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness can precede uncontrolled memory allocation ( CWE-789 ) in languages that automatically expand an array when an
index is used that is larger than the size of the array , such as JavaScript.
Theoretical
An improperly validated array index might lead directly to the always-incorrect behavior of "access of array using out-of-bounds
index."
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Unchecked array indexing
PLOVER INDEX - Array index overflow
CER T C Secure Coding ARR00-C Understand how arrays work
CER T C Secure Coding ARR30-C CWE More
SpecificDo not form or use out-of-bounds pointers or array subscripts
CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C Do not add or subtract an integer to a pointer if the resulting
value does not refer to a valid array element
CER T C Secure Coding INT32-C Ensure that operations on signed integers do not result in
overflow
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS32-PL Imprecise Validate any integer that is used as an array index
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-129
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-100 Overflow Buf fers
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Array Indexing Errors" Page 144. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-96] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 14 - Improper V alidation of Array Index". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-
12. < https://web.archive.org/web/20100316064026/http://blogs.sans.org/appsecstreetfighter/2010/03/12/top-25-series-rank-14-
improper-validation-of-array-index/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-129: Improper Validation of Array Index (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/129.html 8/8[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-129. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names