3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-640: Weak Password Recovery Mechanism for Forgotten Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/640.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-640: W eak Password Recovery Mechanism for Forgotten Password
Weakness ID: 640
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains a mechanism for users to recover or change their passwords without knowing the original password, but the
mechanism is weak.
 Extended Description
It is common for an application to have a mechanism that provides a means for a user to gain access to their account in the event
they forget their password. V ery often the password recovery mechanism is weak, which has the ef fect of making it more likely that it
would be possible for a person other than the legitimate system user to gain access to that user's account. W eak password recovery
schemes completely undermine a strong password authentication scheme.
This weakness may be that the security question is too easy to guess or find an answer to (e.g. because the question is too common,
or the answers can be found using social media). Or there might be an implementation weakness in the password recovery
mechanism code that may for instance trick the system into e-mailing the new password to an e-mail account other than that of the
user. There might be no throttling done on the rate of password resets so that a legitimate user can be denied service by an attacker if
an attacker tries to recover their password in a rapid succession. The system may send the original password to the user rather than
generating a new temporary password. In summary , password recovery functionality , if not carefully designed and implemented can
often become the system's weakest link that can be misused in a way that would allow an attacker to gain unauthorized access to the
system.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could gain unauthorized access to the system by retrieving legitimate user's
authentication credentials.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
An attacker could deny service to legitimate system users by launching a brute force attack on the
password recovery mechanism using user ids of legitimate users.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
The system's security functionality is turned against the system by the attacker .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-640: Weak Password Recovery Mechanism for Forgotten Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/640.html 2/3
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A famous example of this type of weakness being exploited is the eBay attack. eBay always displays the user id of the highest bidder .
In the final minutes of the auction, one of the bidders could try to log in as the highest bidder three times. After three incorrect log in
attempts, eBay password throttling would kick in and lock out the highest bidder's account for some time. An attacker could then make
their own bid and their victim would not have a chance to place the counter bid because they would be locked out. Thus an attacker
could win the auction.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Make sure that all input supplied by the user to the password recovery mechanism is thoroughly filtered and validated.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not use standard weak security questions and use several security questions.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Make sure that there is throttling on the number of incorrect answers to a security question. Disable the password recovery
functionality after a certain (small) number of incorrect guesses.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Require that the user properly answers the security question prior to resetting their password and sending the new password to
the e-mail address of record.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Never allow the user to control what e-mail address the new password will be sent to in the password recovery mechanism.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Assign a new temporary password rather than revealing the original password.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 930 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A2 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1028 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A2 - Broken Authentication
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
This entry appears to be frequently misused for any weakness related to password changes, even though the name focuses on
"Password Recovery" for a "forgotten" password.
Comments:
CWE-640 should only be used when there is a "password recovery" mechanism for forgotten passwords. Consider password-
related entries under CWE-1390 : Weak Authentication.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry might be reclassified as a category or "loose composite," since it lists multiple specific errors that can make the
mechanism weak. However , under view 1000, it could be a weakness under protection mechanism failure, although it is dif ferent
from most PMF issues since it is related to a feature that is designed to bypass a protection mechanism (specifically , the lack of
knowledge of a password).
Maintenance
This entry probably needs to be split; see extended description.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 49 Insuf ficient Password Recovery
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-640: Weak Password Recovery Mechanism for Forgotten Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/640.html 3/3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-50 Password Recovery Exploitation
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names