3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-826: Premature Release of Resource During Expected Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/826.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-826: Premature Release of Resource During Expected Lifetime
Weakness ID: 826
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product releases a resource that is still intended to be used by itself or another actor .
 Extended Description
This weakness focuses on errors in which the product should not release a resource, but performs the release anyway . This is
different than a weakness in which the product releases a resource at the appropriate time, but it maintains a reference to the
resource, which it later accesses. For this weakness, the resource should still be valid upon the subsequent access.
When a product releases a resource that is still being used, it is possible that operations will still be taken on this resource, which may
have been repurposed in the meantime, leading to issues similar to CWE-825 . Consequences may include denial of service,
information exposure, or code execution.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 666 Operation on Resource in W rong Phase of Lifetime
CanPrecede 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Memory
If the released resource is subsequently reused or reallocated, then a read operation on the original
resource might access sensitive data that is associated with a dif ferent user or entity .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
When the resource is released, the software might modify some of its structure, or close associated
channels (such as a file descriptor). When the software later accesses the resource as if it is valid,
the resource might not be in an expected state, leading to resultant errors that may lead to a crash.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Application Data; Modify Memory
When the resource is released, the software might modify some of its structure. This might af fect
logic in the sections of code that still assume the resource is active. If the released resource is
related to memory and is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation,
then code execution may be possible upon subsequent accesses.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-3547 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) might allow resource to be released before operating on it, leading to
NULL dereference ( CWE-476 )
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-826: Premature Release of Resource During Expected Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/826.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied and under-reported as of September 2010. This weakness has been reported in high-visibility software, although the
focus has been primarily on memory allocation and de-allocation. There are very few examples of this weakness that are not directly
related to memory management, although such weaknesses are likely to occur in real-world software for other types of resources.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-09-22
(CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications