3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1264: Hardware Logic with Insecure De-Synchronization between Control and Data Channels (…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1264.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1264: Hardware Logic with Insecure De-Synchronization between Control and
Data Channels
Weakness ID: 1264
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The hardware logic for error handling and security checks can incorrectly forward data before the security check is complete.
 Extended Description
Many high-performance on-chip bus protocols and processor data-paths employ separate channels for control and data to increase
parallelism and maximize throughput. Bugs in the hardware logic that handle errors and security checks can make it possible for data
to be forwarded before the completion of the security checks. If the data can propagate to a location in the hardware observable to an
attacker , loss of data confidentiality can occur . 'Meltdown' is a concrete example of how de-synchronization between data and
permissions checking logic can violate confidentiality requirements. Data loaded from a page marked as privileged was returned to
the cpu regardless of current privilege level for performance reasons. The assumption was that the cpu could later remove all traces
of this data during the handling of the illegal memory access exception, but this assumption was proven false as traces of the secret
data were not removed from the microarchitectural state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 821 Incorrect Synchronization
PeerOf 1037 Processor Optimization Removal or Modification of Security-critical Code
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design The weakness can be introduced in the data transfer or bus protocol itself or in the implementation.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
There are several standard on-chip bus protocols used in modern SoCs to allow communication between components. There are a
wide variety of commercially available hardware IP implementing the interconnect logic for these protocols. A bus connects
components which initiate/request communications such as processors and DMA controllers (bus masters) with peripherals which
respond to requests. In a typical system, the privilege level or security designation of the bus master along with the intended
functionality of each peripheral determine the security policy specifying which specific bus masters can access specific peripherals.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1264: Hardware Logic with Insecure De-Synchronization between Control and Data Channels (…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1264.html 2/2This security policy (commonly referred to as a bus firewall) can be enforced using separate IP/logic from the actual interconnect
responsible for the data routing.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-5754 Systems with microprocessors utilizing speculative execution and indirect branch prediction may allow
unauthorized disclosure of information to an attacker with local user access via a side-channel analysis
of the data cache.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Thoroughly verify the data routing logic to ensure that any error handling or security checks ef fectively block illegal dataflows.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are closely analyzing this entry and others to improve CWE's coverage of
transient execution weaknesses, which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks. Additional investigation may
include other weaknesses related to microarchitectural state. As a result, this entry might change significantly in CWE 4.10.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-233 Privilege Escalation
CAPEC-663 Exploitation of Transient Instruction Execution
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-22
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The firewall and data routing logic becomes de-synchronized due to a hardware logic bug allowing components that should not be allowed
to communicate to share data. For example, consider an SoC with two processors. One is being used as a root of trust and can access a
cryptographic key storage peripheral. The other processor (application cpu) may run potentially untrusted code and should not access the
key store. If the application cpu can issue a read request to the key store which is not blocked due to de-synchronization of data routing
and the bus firewall, disclosure of cryptographic keys is possible.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
All data is correctly buffered inside the interconnect until the firewall has determined that the endpoint is allowed to receive the data.