3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
Weakness ID: 352
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application does not, or can not, suf ficiently verify whether a well-formed, valid, consistent request was intentionally provided
by the user who submitted the request.
 Composite Components
Nature Type ID Name
Requires 346 Origin V alidation Error
Requires 441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
Requires 642 External Control of Critical State Data
Requires 613 Insuf ficient Session Expiration
 Extended Description
When a web server is designed to receive a request from a client without any mechanism for verifying that it was intentionally sent,
then it might be possible for an attacker to trick a client into making an unintentional request to the web server which will be treated as
an authentic request. This can be done via a URL, image load, XMLHttpRequest, etc. and can result in exposure of data or
unintended code execution.
 Alternate T erms
Session Riding
Cross Site Reference Forgery
XSRF
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
PeerOf 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
CanFollow 1275 Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact LikelihoodAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
 (Structure: Composite)
ALLOWED
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 2/6Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Application Data; Modify
Application Data; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The consequences will vary depending on the nature of the functionality that is vulnerable to
CSRF . An attacker could ef fectively perform any operations as the victim. If the victim is an
administrator or privileged user , the consequences may include obtaining complete control over
the web application - deleting or stealing data, uninstalling the product, or using it to launch other
attacks against all of the product's users. Because the attacker has the identity of the victim, the
scope of CSRF is limited only by the victim's privileges.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example PHP code attempts to secure the form submission process by validating that the user submitting the form has a valid
session. A CSRF attack would not be prevented by this countermeasure because the attacker forges a request through the user's web
browser in which a valid session already exists.
The following HTML is intended to allow a user to update a profile.
profile.php contains the following code.
This code may look protected since it checks for a valid session. However , CSRF attacks can be staged from virtually any tag or
HTML construct, including image tags, links, embed or object tags, or other attributes that load background images.
The attacker can then host code that will silently change the username and email address of any user that visits the page while
remaining logged in to the target web application. The code might be an innocent-looking web page such as:(bad code) Example Language: HTML 



  




(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
// initiate the session in order to validate sessions
session\_start();
//if the session is registered to a valid user then allow update
if (! session\_is\_registered("username")) {
echo "invalid session detected!";
// Redirect user to login page
[...]
exit;
}
// The user session is valid, so process the request
// and update the information
update\_profile();
function update\_profile {
// read in the data from $POST and send an update
// to the database
SendUpdateToDatabase($\_SESSION['username'], $\_POST['email']);
[...]
echo "Your profile has been successfully updated.";
}
(attack code) Example Language: HTML 

function SendAttack () {
form.email = "attacker@example.com";
// send to profile.php
form.submit();
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 3/6Notice how the form contains hidden fields, so when it is loaded into the browser , the user will not notice it. Because SendAttack() is
defined in the body's onload attribute, it will be automatically called when the victim loads the web page.
Assuming that the user is already logged in to victim.example.com, profile.php will see that a valid user session has been established,
then update the email address to the attacker's own address. At this stage, the user's identity has been compromised, and messages
sent through this profile could be sent to the attacker's address.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1703 Add user accounts via a URL in an img tag
CVE-2004-1995 Add user accounts via a URL in an img tag
CVE-2004-1967 Arbitrary code execution by specifying the code in a crafted img tag or URL
CVE-2004-1842 Gain administrative privileges via a URL in an img tag
CVE-2005-1947 Delete a victim's information via a URL or an img tag
CVE-2005-2059 Change another user's settings via a URL or an img tag
CVE-2005-1674 Perform actions as administrator via a URL or an img tag
CVE-2009-3520 modify password for the administrator
CVE-2009-3022 CMS allows modification of configuration via CSRF attack against the administrator
CVE-2009-3759 web interface allows password changes or stopping a virtual machine via CSRF
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, use anti-CSRF packages such as the OW ASP CSRFGuard. [ REF-330 ]
Another example is the ESAPI Session Management control, which includes a component for CSRF . [REF-45 ]
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the application is free of cross-site scripting issues ( CWE-79 ), because most CSRF defenses can be bypassed
using attacker-controlled script.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Generate a unique nonce for each form, place the nonce into the form, and verify the nonce upon receipt of the form. Be sure
that the nonce is not predictable ( CWE-330 ). [REF-332 ]
Note: Note that this can be bypassed using XSS ( CWE-79 ).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify especially dangerous operations. When the user performs a dangerous operation, send a separate confirmation request
to ensure that the user intended to perform that operation.
Note: Note that this can be bypassed using XSS ( CWE-79 ).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use the "double-submitted cookie" method as described by Felten and Zeller:
When a user visits a site, the site should generate a pseudorandom value and set it as a cookie on the user's machine. The site
should require every form submission to include this value as a form value and also as a cookie value. When a POST request is
sent to the site, the request should only be considered valid if the form value and the cookie value are the same.
Because of the same-origin policy , an attacker cannot read or modify the value stored in the cookie. To successfully submit a
form on behalf of the user , the attacker would have to correctly guess the pseudorandom value. If the pseudorandom value is
cryptographically strong, this will be prohibitively dif ficult.
This technique requires Javascript, so it may not work for browsers that have Javascript disabled. [ REF-331 ]
Note: Note that this can probably be bypassed using XSS ( CWE-79 ), or when using web technologies that enable the attacker to
read raw headers from HTTP requests.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not use the GET method for any request that triggers a state change.
Phase: Implementation}





  


3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 4/6Check the HTTP Referer header to see if the request originated from an expected page. This could break legitimate functionality ,
because users or proxies may have disabled sending the Referer for privacy reasons.
Note: Note that this can be bypassed using XSS ( CWE-79 ). An attacker could use XSS to generate a spoofed Referer , or to
generate a malicious request from a page whose Referer would be allowed.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual analysis can be useful for finding this weakness, and for minimizing false positives assuming an
understanding of business logic. However , it might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time constraints. For black-
box analysis, if credentials are not known for privileged accounts, then the most security-critical portions of the application may
not receive suf ficient attention.
Consider using OW ASP CSRFT ester to identify potential issues and aid in manual analysis.
Effectiveness: High
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Automated Static Analysis
CSRF is currently dif ficult to detect reliably using automated techniques. This is because each application has its own implicit
security policy that dictates which requests can be influenced by an outsider and automatically performed on behalf of a user ,
versus which requests require strong confidence that the user intends to make the request. For example, a keyword search of
the public portion of a web site is typically expected to be encoded within a link that can be launched automatically when the
user clicks on the link.
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Web Application Scanner
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 5/6According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 716 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A5 - Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
MemberOf 751 2009 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 801 2010 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 814 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A5 - Cross-Site Request Forgery(CSRF)
MemberOf 864 2011 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 936 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A8 - Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This is a well-known Composite of multiple weaknesses that must all occur simultaneously , although it is attack-oriented in nature.
Comments:
While attack-oriented composites are supported in CWE, they have not been a focus of research. There is a chance that future
research or CWE scope clarifications will change or deprecate them. Perform root-cause analysis to determine if other
weaknesses allow CSRF attacks to occur , and map to those weaknesses. For example, predictable CSRF tokens might allow
bypass of CSRF protection mechanisms; if this occurs, they might be better characterized as randomness/predictability
weaknesses.
 Notes
Relationship
There can be a close relationship between XSS and CSRF ( CWE-352 ). An attacker might use CSRF in order to trick the victim into
submitting requests to the server in which the requests contain an XSS payload. A well-known example of this was the Samy worm
on MySpace [ REF-956 ]. The worm used XSS to insert malicious HTML sequences into a user's profile and add the attacker as a
MySpace friend. MySpace friends of that victim would then execute the payload to modify their own profiles, causing the worm to
propagate exponentially . Since the victims did not intentionally insert the malicious script themselves, CSRF was a root cause.
Theoretical
The CSRF topology is multi-channel:
Attacker (as outsider) to intermediary (as user). The interaction point is either an external or internal channel.
Intermediary (as user) to server (as victim). The activation point is an internal channel.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A5 Exact Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
WASC 9 Cross-site Request Forgery
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/352.html 6/6
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-111 JSON Hijacking (aka JavaScript Hijacking)
CAPEC-462 Cross-Domain Search Timing
CAPEC-467 Cross Site Identification
CAPEC-62 Cross Site Request Forgery
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 2: W eb-Server Related
Vulnerabilities (XSS, XSRF , and Response Splitting)." Page 37. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-329] Peter W . "Cross-Site Request Forgeries (Re: The Dangers of Allowing Users to Post Images)". Bugtraq.
.
[REF-330] OW ASP. "Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Prevention Cheat Sheet". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/Cross-
Site\_Request\_Forgery\_(CSRF)\_Prevention\_Cheat\_Sheet >.
[REF-331] Edward W . Felten and William Zeller . "Cross-Site Request Forgeries: Exploitation and Prevention". 2008-10-18.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-332] Robert Auger . "CSRF - The Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF/XSRF) F AQ". < https://www .cgisecurity .com/csrf-
faq.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-333] "Cross-site request forgery". Wikipedia. 2008-12-22. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site\_request\_forgery >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-334] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 4 - Cross Site Request Forgery". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-03.
.
[REF-335] Jef f Atwood. "Preventing CSRF and XSRF Attacks". 2008-10-14. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/preventing-csrf-and-
xsrf-attacks/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-956] Wikipedia. "Samy (computer worm)". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samy\_(computer\_worm) >. URL validated: 2018-01-
16.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications