3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-369: Divide By Zero (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/369.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-369: Divide By Zero
Weakness ID: 369
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product divides a value by zero.
 Extended Description
This weakness typically occurs when an unexpected value is provided to the product, or if an error occurs that is not properly
detected. It frequently occurs in calculations involving physical dimensions such as size, length, width, and height.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
A Divide by Zero results in a crash.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following Java example contains a function to compute an average but does not validate that the input value used as the
denominator is not zero. This will create an exception for attempting to divide by zero. If this error is not handled by Java exception
handling, unexpected results can occur .
By validating the input value used as the denominator the following code will ensure that a divide by zero error will not cause
unexpected results. The following Java code example will validate the input value, output an error message, and throw an exception.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public int computeAverageResponseTime (int totalTime, int numRequests) {
return totalTime / numRequests;
}
(good code) 
public int computeAverageResponseTime (int totalTime, int numRequests) throws ArithmeticException {
if (numRequests == 0) {
System.out.println("Division by zero attempted!");
throw ArithmeticException;
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-369: Divide By Zero (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/369.html 2/4Example 2
The following C/C++ example contains a function that divides two numeric values without verifying that the input value used as the
denominator is not zero. This will create an error for attempting to divide by zero, if this error is not caught by the error handling
capabilities of the language, unexpected results can occur .
By validating the input value used as the denominator the following code will ensure that a divide by zero error will not cause
unexpected results. If the method is called and a zero is passed as the second argument a DivideByZero error will be thrown and
should be caught by the calling block with an output message indicating the error .
Example 2 References:
[REF-371] Alex Allain. "Handling Errors Exceptionally Well in C++". . URL
validated: 2023-04-07.
Example 3
The following C# example contains a function that divides two numeric values without verifying that the input value used as the
denominator is not zero. This will create an error for attempting to divide by zero, if this error is not caught by the error handling
capabilities of the language, unexpected results can occur .
The method can be modified to raise, catch and handle the DivideByZeroException if the input value used as the denominator is zero.
Example 3 References:
[REF-372] Microsoft. "Exceptions and Exception Handling (C# Programming Guide)". .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-3268 Invalid size value leads to divide by zero.}
return totalTime / numRequests;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
double divide(double x, double y){
return x/y;
}
(good code) 
const int DivideByZero = 10;
double divide(double x, double y){
if ( 0 == y ){
throw DivideByZero;
}
return x/y;
}
...
try{
divide(10, 0);
}
catch( int i ){
if(i==DivideByZero) {
cerr<<"Divide by zero error";
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
int Division(int x, int y){
return (x / y);
}
(good code) 
int SafeDivision(int x, int y){
try{
return (x / y);
}
catch (System.DivideByZeroException dbz){
System.Console.WriteLine("Division by zero attempted!");
return 0;
}
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-369: Divide By Zero (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/369.html 3/4CVE-2007-2723 "Empty" content triggers divide by zero.
CVE-2007-2237 Height value of 0 triggers divide by zero.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 739 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 6 - Floating Point (FLP)
MemberOf 848 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 5 - Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 873 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 05 - Floating Point Arithmetic (FLP)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1137 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 03. Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
CER T C Secure Coding FLP03-C Detect and handle floating point errors
CER T C Secure Coding INT33-C Exact Ensure that division and remainder operations do not result in
divide-by-zero errors
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)NUM02-J Ensure that division and modulo operations do not result in
divide-by-zero errors
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 References
[REF-371] Alex Allain. "Handling Errors Exceptionally W ell in C++". < https://www .cprogramming.com/tutorial/exceptions.html >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-372] Microsoft. "Exceptions and Exception Handling (C# Programming Guide)". < https://msdn.microsoft.com/pl-
pl/library/ms173160(v=vs.100).aspx >.
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-369: Divide By Zero (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/369.html 4/4
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications