3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-651: Exposure of WSDL File Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/651.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-651: Exposure of WSDL File Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 651
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The W eb services architecture may require exposing a W eb Service Definition Language (WSDL) file that contains information on the
publicly accessible services and how callers of these services should interact with them (e.g. what parameters they expect and what
types they return).
 Extended Description
An information exposure may occur if any of the following apply:
The WSDL file is accessible to a wider audience than intended.
The WSDL file contains information on the methods/services that should not be publicly accessible or information about
deprecated methods. This problem is made more likely due to the WSDL often being automatically generated from the code.
Information in the WSDL file helps guess names/locations of methods/resources that should not be publicly accessible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 538 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The attacker may find sensitive information located in the WSDL file.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The WSDL for a service providing information on the best price of a certain item exposes the following method: float
getBestPrice(String ItemID) An attacker might guess that there is a method setBestPrice (String ItemID, float Price) that is available
and invoke that method to try and change the best price of a given item to their advantage. The attack may succeed if the attacker
correctly guesses the name of the method, the method does not have proper access controls around it and the service itself has the
functionality to update the best price of the item.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Limit access to the WSDL file as much as possible. If services are provided only to a limited number of entities, it may be better
to provide WSDL privately to each of these entities than to publish WSDL publicly .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of PrivilegeAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-651: Exposure of WSDL File Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/651.html 2/2Make sure that WSDL does not describe methods that should not be publicly accessible. Make sure to protect service methods
that should not be publicly accessible with access controls.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not use method names in WSDL that might help an adversary guess names of private methods/resources used by the
service.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 966 SFP Secondary Cluster: Other Exposures
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
