3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-760: Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/760.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-760: Use of a One-W ay Hash with a Predictable Salt
Weakness ID: 760
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a one-way cryptographic hash against an input that should not be reversible, such as a password, but the product
uses a predictable salt as part of the input.
 Extended Description
This makes it easier for attackers to pre-compute the hash value using dictionary attack techniques such as rainbow tables, ef fectively
disabling the protection that an unpredictable salt would provide.
It should be noted that, despite common perceptions, the use of a good salt with a hash does not suf ficiently increase the ef fort for an
attacker who is targeting an individual password, or who has a large amount of computing resources available, such as with cloud-
based services or specialized, inexpensive hardware. Of fline password cracking can still be ef fective if the hash function is not
expensive to compute; many cryptographic functions are designed to be ef ficient and can be vulnerable to attacks using massive
computing resources, even if the hash is cryptographically strong. The use of a salt only slightly increases the computing
requirements for an attacker compared to other strategies such as adaptive hash functions. See CWE-916 for more details.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 916 Use of Password Hash With Insuf ficient Computational Ef fort
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
In cryptography , salt refers to some random addition of data to an input before hashing to make dictionary attacks more dif ficult.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-4905 Blogging software uses a hard-coded salt when calculating a password hash.
CVE-2002-1657 Database server uses the username for a salt when encrypting passwords, simplifying brute force
attacks.
CVE-2001-0967 Server uses a constant salt when encrypting passwords, simplifying brute force attacks.
CVE-2005-0408 chain: product generates predictable MD5 hashes using a constant value combined with username,
allowing authentication bypass.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an adaptive hash function that can be configured to change the amount of computational ef fort needed to compute the
hash, such as the number of iterations ("stretching") or the amount of memory required. Some hash functions perform salting
automatically . These functions can significantly increase the overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast
functions such as MD5. For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing overhead. Finally ,
since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique can be reconfigured to increase the workload without
forcing an entire replacement of the algorithm in use.
Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties include bcrypt [ REF-291 ], scrypt [ REF-292 ], and
PBKDF2 [ REF-293 ]. While there is active debate about which of these is the most ef fective, they are all stronger than using salts
with hash functions with very little computing overhead.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-760: Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/760.html 2/3Note that using these functions can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-of-
service attacks. However , their configurability provides finer control over how much CPU and memory is used, so it could be
adjusted to suit the environment's needs.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Implementation
If a technique that requires extra computational ef fort can not be implemented, then for each password that is processed,
generate a new random salt using a strong random number generator with unpredictable seeds. Add the salt to the plaintext
password before hashing it. When storing the hash, also store the salt. Do not use the same salt for every password.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: Be aware that salts will not reduce the workload of a targeted attack against an individual hash (such as the password for a
critical person), and in general they are less ef fective than other hashing techniques such as increasing the computation time or
memory overhead. Without a built-in workload, modern attacks can compute large numbers of hashes, or even exhaust the
entire space of all possible passwords, within a very short amount of time, using massively-parallel computing and GPU, ASIC,
or FPGA hardware.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 958 SFP Secondary Cluster: Broken Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 References
[REF-291] Johnny Shelley . "bcrypt". < http://bcrypt.sourceforge.net/ >.
[REF-292] Colin Percival. "T arsnap - The scrypt key derivation function and encryption utility".
.
[REF-293] B. Kaliski. "RFC2898 - PKCS #5: Password-Based Cryptography Specification V ersion 2.0". 5.2 PBKDF2. 2000.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-294] Coda Hale. "How To Safely Store A Password". 2010-01-31. < https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-295] Brian Krebs. "How Companies Can Beef Up Password Security (interview with Thomas H. Ptacek)". 2012-06-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-296] Solar Designer . "Password security: past, present, future". 2012.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-297] Troy Hunt. "Our password hashing has no clothes". 2012-06-26. < https://www .troyhunt.com/our-password-hashing-
has-no-clothes/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-760: Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/760.html 3/3[REF-298] Joshbw . "Should we really use bcrypt/scrypt?". 2012-06-08.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-631] OW ASP. "Password Storage Cheat Sheet".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-632] Thomas Ptacek. "Enough With The Rainbow Tables: What You Need To Know About Secure Password Schemes".
2007-09-10. < http://hashphp.org/hashing.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-633] Robert Graham. "The Importance of Being Canonical". 2009-02-02. < https://blog.erratasec.com/2009/02/importance-
of-being-canonical.html#.ZCbyY7LMJPY >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-634] James McGlinn. "Password Hashing". < https://privacyaustralia.net/phpsec/articles/password-hashing/ >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-635] Jef f Atwood. "Rainbow Hash Cracking". 2007-09-08. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/rainbow-hash-cracking/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-636] Jef f Atwood. "Speed Hashing". 2012-04-06. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/speed-hashing/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-637] "Rainbow table". Wikipedia. 2009-03-03. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow\_table >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "Creating a Salted Hash" Page 302. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Salt V alues",
Page 46. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-03-03
(CWE 1.3, 2009-03-10)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications