3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-283: Unveriﬁed Ownership (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/283.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-283: Unverified Ownership
Weakness ID: 283
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly verify that a critical resource is owned by the proper entity .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 282 Improper Ownership Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could gain unauthorized access to system resources.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This function is part of a privileged program that takes input from users with potentially lower privileges.
This code does not confirm that the process to be killed is owned by the requesting user , thus allowing an attacker to kill arbitrary
processes.
This function remedies the problem by checking the owner of the process before killing it:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def killProcess(processID):
os.kill(processID, signal.SIGKILL)
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def killProcess(processID):
user = getCurrentUser()
#Check process owner against requesting user
if getProcessOwner(processID) == user:
os.kill(processID, signal.SIGKILL)
return
else:
it("Y tkill d't ")3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-283: Unveriﬁed Ownership (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/283.html 2/2
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0178 Program does not verify the owner of a UNIX socket that is used for sending a password.
CVE-2004-2012 Owner of special device not checked, allowing root.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a
system resource.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 944 SFP Secondary Cluster: Access Management
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This overlaps insuf ficient comparison, verification errors, permissions, and privileges.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unverified Ownership
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
print("You cannot kill a process you don't own")
return