3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-427: Uncontrolled Search Path Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/427.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-427: Uncontrolled Search Path Element
Weakness ID: 427
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a fixed or controlled search path to find resources, but one or more locations in that path can be under the control of
unintended actors.
 Extended Description
Although this weakness can occur with any type of resource, it is frequently introduced when a product uses a directory search path
to find executables or code libraries, but the path contains a directory that can be modified by an attacker , such as "/tmp" or the
current working directory .
In Windows-based systems, when the LoadLibrary or LoadLibraryEx function is called with a DLL name that does not contain a fully
qualified path, the function follows a search order that includes two path elements that might be uncontrolled:
the directory from which the program has been loaded
the current working directory
In some cases, the attack can be conducted remotely , such as when SMB or W ebDA V network shares are used.
One or more locations in that path could include the Windows drive root or its subdirectories. This often exists in Linux-based code
assuming the controlled nature of the root directory (/) or its subdirectories (/etc, etc), or a code that recursively accesses the parent
directory . In Windows, the drive root and some of its subdirectories have weak permissions by default, which makes them
uncontrolled.
In some Unix-based systems, a P ATH might be created that contains an empty element, e.g. by splicing an empty variable into the
PATH. This empty element can be interpreted as equivalent to the current working directory , which might be an untrusted search
element.
In software package management frameworks (e.g., npm, RubyGems, or PyPi), the framework may identify dependencies on third-
party libraries or other packages, then consult a repository that contains the desired package. The framework may search a public
repository before a private repository . This could be exploited by attackers by placing a malicious package in the public repository that
has the same name as a package from the private repository . The search path might not be directly under control of the developer
relying on the framework, but this search order ef fectively contains an untrusted element.
 Alternate T erms
DLL preloading: This term is one of several that are used to describe exploitation of untrusted search path elements
in Windows systems, which received wide attention in August 2010. From a weakness perspective,
the term is imprecise because it can apply to both CWE-426 and CWE-427 .
Binary planting: This term is one of several that are used to describe exploitation of untrusted search path elements
in Windows systems, which received wide attention in August 2010. From a weakness perspective,
the term is imprecise because it can apply to both CWE-426 and CWE-427 .
Insecure library loading: This term is one of several that are used to describe exploitation of untrusted search path elements
in Windows systems, which received wide attention in August 2010. From a weakness perspective,
the term is imprecise because it can apply to both CWE-426 and CWE-427 .
Dependency confusion: As of February 2021, this term is used to describe CWE-427 in the context of managing installation
of software package dependencies, in which attackers release packages on public sites where the
names are the same as package names used by private repositories, and the search for the
dependent package tries the public site first, downloading untrusted code. It may also be referred to
as a "substitution attack."
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
PeerOf 426 Untrusted Search Path
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-427: Uncontrolled Search Path Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/427.html 2/5MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code is from a web application that allows users access to an interface through which they can update their password
on the system. In this environment, user passwords can be managed using the Network Information System (NIS), which is commonly
used on UNIX systems. When performing NIS updates, part of the process for updating passwords is to run a make command in the
/var/yp directory . Performing NIS updates requires extra privileges.
The problem here is that the program does not specify an absolute path for make and does not clean its environment prior to
executing the call to Runtime.exec(). If an attacker can modify the $P ATH variable to point to a malicious binary called make and
cause the program to be executed in their environment, then the malicious binary will be loaded instead of the one intended. Because
of the nature of the application, it runs with the privileges necessary to perform system operations, which means the attacker's make
will now be run with these privileges, possibly giving the attacker complete control of the system.
Example 2
In versions of Go prior to v1.19, the LookPath function would follow the conventions of the runtime OS and look for a program in the
directiories listed in the current path [ REF-1325 ].
Therefore, Go would prioritize searching the current directory when the provided command name does not contain a directory
separator and continued to search for programs even when the specified program name is empty .
Consider the following where an application executes a git command to run on the system.
An attacker could create a malicious repository with a file named ..exe and another file named git.exe. If git.exe is not found in the
system P ATH, then ..exe would execute [ REF-1326 ].
Example 3
In February 2021 [ REF-1169 ], a researcher was able to demonstrate the ability to breach major technology companies by using
"dependency confusion" where the companies would download and execute untrusted packages.
The researcher discovered the names of some internal, private packages by looking at dependency lists in public source code, such
as package.json. The researcher then created new , untrusted packages with the same name as the internal packages, then uploaded
them to package hosting services. These services included the npm registry for Node, PyPi for Python, and RubyGems. In af fected
companies, their dependency resolution would search the public hosting services first before consulting their internal service, causing
the untrusted packages to be automatically downloaded and executed.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
System.Runtime.getRuntime().exec("make");
...
(bad code) Example Language: Go 
func ExecuteGitCommand(name string, arg []string) error {
c := exec.Command(name, arg...)
var err error
c.Path, err = exec.LookPath(name)
if err != nil {
return err
}
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-427: Uncontrolled Search Path Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/427.html 3/5CVE-2023-25815 chain: a change in an underlying package causes the gettext function to use implicit initialization with a
hard-coded path ( CWE-1419 ) under the user-writable C:\ drive, introducing an untrusted search path
element ( CWE-427 ) that enables spoofing of messages.
CVE-2022-4826 Go-based git extension on Windows can search for and execute a malicious "..exe" in a repository
because Go searches the current working directory if git.exe is not found in the P ATH
CVE-2020-26284 A Static Site Generator built in Go, when running on Windows, searches the current working directory
for a command, possibly allowing code execution using a malicious .exe or .bat file with the name
being searched
CVE-2022-24765 Windows-based fork of git creates a ".git" folder in the C: drive, allowing local attackers to create a .git
folder with a malicious config file
CVE-2019-1552 SSL package searches under "C:/usr/local" for configuration files and other critical data, but C:/usr/local
might be world-writable.
CVE-2010-3402 "DLL hijacking" issue in document editor .
CVE-2010-3397 "DLL hijacking" issue in encryption software.
CVE-2010-3138 "DLL hijacking" issue in library used by multiple media players.
CVE-2010-3152 "DLL hijacking" issue in illustration program.
CVE-2010-3147 "DLL hijacking" issue in address book.
CVE-2010-3135 "DLL hijacking" issue in network monitoring software.
CVE-2010-3131 "DLL hijacking" issue in web browser .
CVE-2010-1795 "DLL hijacking" issue in music player/organizer .
CVE-2002-1576 Product uses the current working directory to find and execute a program, which allows local users to
gain privileges by creating a symlink that points to a malicious version of the program.
CVE-1999-1461 Product trusts the P ATH environmental variable to find and execute a program, which allows local
users to obtain root access by modifying the P ATH to point to a malicous version of that program.
CVE-1999-1318 Software uses a search path that includes the current working directory (.), which allows local users to
gain privileges via malicious programs.
CVE-2003-0579 Admin software trusts the user-supplied -uv .install command line option to find and execute the
uv.install program, which allows local users to gain privileges by providing a pathname that is under
control of the user .
CVE-2000-0854 When a document is opened, the directory of that document is first used to locate DLLs , which could
allow an attacker to execute arbitrary commands by inserting malicious DLLs into the same directory as
the document.
CVE-2001-0943 Database trusts the P ATH environment variable to find and execute programs, which allows local users
to modify the P ATH to point to malicious programs.
CVE-2001-0942 Database uses an environment variable to find and execute a program, which allows local users to
execute arbitrary programs by changing the environment variable.
CVE-2001-0507 Server uses relative paths to find system files that will run in-process, which allows local users to gain
privileges via a malicious file.
CVE-2002-2017 Product allows local users to execute arbitrary code by setting an environment variable to reference a
malicious program.
CVE-1999-0690 Product includes the current directory in root's P ATH variable.
CVE-2001-0912 Error during packaging causes product to include a hard-coded, non-standard directory in search path.
CVE-2001-0289 Product searches current working directory for configuration file.
CVE-2005-1705 Product searches current working directory for configuration file.
CVE-2005-1307 Product executable other program from current working directory .
CVE-2002-2040 Untrusted path.
CVE-2005-2072 Modification of trusted environment variable leads to untrusted path vulnerability .
CVE-2005-1632 Product searches /tmp for modules before other paths.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Hard-code the search path to a set of known-safe values (such as system directories), or only allow them to be specified by the
administrator in a configuration file. Do not allow these settings to be modified by an external party . Be careful to avoid related
weaknesses such as CWE-426 and CWE-428 .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
When invoking other programs, specify those programs using fully-qualified pathnames. While this is an ef fective approach,
code that uses fully-qualified pathnames might not be portable to other systems that do not use the same pathnames. The
portability can be improved by locating the full-qualified paths in a centralized, easily-modifiable location within the source code,
and having the code refer to these paths.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Remove or restrict all environment settings before invoking other programs. This includes the P ATH environment variable,
LD\_LIBRAR Y\_PATH, and other settings that identify the location of code libraries, and any application-specific search paths.
Phase: Implementation
Check your search path before use and remove any elements that are likely to be unsafe, such as the current working directory
or a temporary files directory . Since this is a denylist approach, it might not be a complete solution.3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-427: Uncontrolled Search Path Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/427.html 4/5Phase: Implementation
Use other functions that require explicit paths. Making use of any of the other readily available functions that require explicit
paths is a safe way to avoid this problem. For example, system() in C does not require a full path since the shell can take care of
finding the program using the P ATH environment variable, while execl() and execv() require a full path.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Unlike untrusted search path ( CWE-426 ), which inherently involves control over the definition of a control sphere (i.e., modification of
a search path), this entry concerns a fixed control sphere in which some part of the sphere may be under attacker control (i.e., the
search path cannot be modified by an attacker , but one element of the path can be under attacker control).
Theoretical
This weakness is not a clean fit under CWE-668 or CWE-610 , which suggests that the control sphere model might need
enhancement or clarification.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Uncontrolled Search Path Element
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-38 Leveraging/Manipulating Configuration File Search Paths
CAPEC-471 Search Order Hijacking
 References
[REF-409] Georgi Guninski. "Double clicking on MS Of fice documents from Windows Explorer may execute arbitrary programs in
some cases". Bugtraq. 2000-09-18. < https://seclists.org/bugtraq/2000/Sep/331 >. URL validated: 2023-01-30 .
[REF-410] Mitja Kolsek. "ACROS Security: Remote Binary Planting in Apple iT unes for Windows (ASPR #2010-08-18-1)".
Bugtraq. 2010-08-18. < https://lists.openwall.net/bugtraq/2010/08/18/4 >. URL validated: 2023-01-30 .
[REF-411] Taeho Kwon and Zhendong Su. "Automatic Detection of V ulnerable Dynamic Component Loadings".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-412] "Dynamic-Link Library Search Order". Microsoft. 2010-09-02. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/windows/win32/dlls/dynamic-link-library-search-order?redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-413] "Dynamic-Link Library Security". Microsoft. 2010-09-02. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/windows/win32/dlls/dynamic-link-library-security >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-414] "An update on the DLL-preloading remote attack vector". Microsoft. 2010-08-31.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-415] "Insecure Library Loading Could Allow Remote Code Execution". Microsoft. 2010-08-23.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-416] HD Moore. "Application DLL Load Hijacking". 2010-08-23. < https://www .rapid7.com/blog/?p=5325 >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-417] Oliver Lavery . "DLL Hijacking: Facts and Fiction". 2010-08-26. < https://threatpost.com/dll-hijacking-facts-and-fiction-
082610/74384/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1168] Catalin Cimpanu. "Microsoft warns enterprises of new 'dependency confusion' attack technique". ZDNet. 2021-02-10.
.
[REF-1169] Alex Birsan. "Dependency Confusion: How I Hacked Into Apple, Microsoft and Dozens of Other Companies". 2021-
02-09. < https://medium.com/@alex.birsan/dependency-confusion-4a5d60fec610 >.
[REF-1170] Microsoft. "3 W ays to Mitigate Risk When Using Private Package Feeds". 2021-02-09.
.
[REF-1325] "exec package - os/exec - Go Packages". 2023-04-04. < https://pkg.go.dev/os/exec >. URL validated: 2023-04-21 .
[REF-1326] Brian M. Carlson. "Git LFS Changelog". 2022-04-19. < https://github.com/git-lfs/git-
lfs/commit/032dca8ee69c193208cd050024c27e82e11aef81 >. URL validated: 2023-04-21 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-05-24 Anonymous External Contributor
provided observed examples and descriptions for Windows drive root
 Modifications