3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-117: Improper Output Neutralization for Logs (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/117.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-117: Improper Output Neutralization for Logs
Weakness ID: 117
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes output that is written to logs.
 Extended Description
This can allow an attacker to forge log entries or inject malicious content into logs.
Log forging vulnerabilities occur when:
1. Data enters an application from an untrusted source.
2. The data is written to an application or system log file.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 116 Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output
CanFollow 93 Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences ('CRLF Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1210 Audit / Logging Errors
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Background Details
Applications typically use log files to store a history of events or transactions for later review , statistics gathering, or debugging.
Depending on the nature of the application, the task of reviewing log files may be performed manually on an as-needed basis or
automated with a tool that automatically culls logs for important events or trending information.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Hide Activities; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Interpretation of the log files may be hindered or misdirected if an attacker can supply data to the
application that is subsequently logged verbatim. In the most benign case, an attacker may be
able to insert false entries into the log file by providing the application with input that includes
appropriate characters. Forged or otherwise corrupted log files can be used to cover an attacker's
tracks, possibly by skewing statistics, or even to implicate another party in the commission of a
malicious act. If the log file is processed automatically , the attacker can render the file unusable by
corrupting the format of the file or injecting unexpected characters. An attacker may inject code or
other commands into the log file and take advantage of a vulnerability in the log processing utility .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
MediumAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-117: Improper Output Neutralization for Logs (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/117.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following web application code attempts to read an integer value from a request object. If the parseInt call fails, then the input is
logged with an error message indicating what happened.
If a user submits the string "twenty-one" for val, the following entry is logged:
INFO: Failed to parse val=twenty-one
However , if an attacker submits the string "twenty-one%0a%0aINFO:+User+logged+out%3dbadguy", the following entry is logged:
INFO: Failed to parse val=twenty-one
INFO: User logged out=badguy
Clearly , attackers can use this same mechanism to insert arbitrary log entries.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-4624 Chain: inject fake log entries with fake timestamps using CRLF injection
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String val = request.getParameter("val");
try {
int value = Integer.parseInt(val);
}
catch (NumberFormatException) {
log.info("Failed to parse val = " + val);
}
...3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-117: Improper Output Neutralization for Logs (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/117.html 3/3Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 727 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A6 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1134 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 00. Input V alidation and Data
Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1355 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A09:2021 - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Log Forging
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS03-J Exact Do not log unsanitized user input
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaIDS03-J Exact Do not log unsanitized user input
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-268 Audit Log Manipulation
CAPEC-81 Web Server Logs Tampering
CAPEC-93 Log Injection-T ampering-Forging
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-52] Greg Hoglund and Gary McGraw . "Exploiting Software: How to Break Code". Addison-W esley . 2004-02-27.
.
[REF-53] Alec Muf fet. "The night the log was forged". < http://doc.novsu.ac.ru/oreilly/tcpip/puis/ch10\_05.htm >.
[REF-43] OW ASP. "OW ASP TOP 10". 2007-05-18. < https://github.com/owasp-top/owasp-top-2007 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
