3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-196: Unsigned to Signed Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/196.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-196: Unsigned to Signed Conversion Error
Weakness ID: 196
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an unsigned primitive and performs a cast to a signed primitive, which can produce an unexpected value if the
value of the unsigned primitive can not be represented using a signed primitive.
 Extended Description
Although less frequent an issue than signed-to-unsigned conversion, unsigned-to-signed conversion can be the perfect precursor to
dangerous buf fer underwrite conditions that allow attackers to move down the stack where they otherwise might not have access in a
normal buf fer overflow condition. Buf fer underwrites occur frequently when large unsigned values are cast to signed values, and then
used as indexes into a buf fer or for pointer arithmetic.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
CanAlsoBe 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
CanAlsoBe 124 Buffer Underwrite ('Buf fer Underflow')
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Incorrect sign conversions generally lead to undefined behavior , and therefore crashes.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If a poor cast lead to a buf fer overflow or similar condition, data integrity may be af fected.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
Improper signed-to-unsigned conversions without proper checking can sometimes trigger buf fer
overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code. This is usually outside the scope of a
program's implicit security policy .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Choose a language which is not subject to these casting flaws.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design object accessor functions to implicitly check values for valid sizes. Ensure that all functions which will be used as a size
are checked previous to use as a size. If the language permits, throw exceptions rather than using in-band errors.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-196: Unsigned to Signed Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/196.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Error check the return values of all functions. Be aware of implicit casts made, and use unsigned variables for sizes if at all
possible.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Unsigned to signed conversion error
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-92 Forced Integer Overflow
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ype
Conversions", Page 223. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
