3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-279: Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/279.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-279: Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions
Weakness ID: 279
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
While it is executing, the product sets the permissions of an object in a way that violates the intended permissions that have been
specified by the user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 275 Permission Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Architecture and Design
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0265 Log files opened read/write.
CVE-2003-0876 Log files opened read/write.
CVE-2002-1694 Log files opened read/write.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-279: Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/279.html 2/2MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 946 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource Permissions
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Insecure execution-assigned permissions
CER T C Secure Coding FIO06-C Create files with appropriate access permissions
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO01-J Create files with appropriate access permission
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-81 Web Server Logs Tampering
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
