3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-96: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Statically Saved Code ('Static Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/96.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-96: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Statically Saved Code ('Static
Code Injection')
Weakness ID: 96
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes code syntax before
inserting the input into an executable resource, such as a library , configuration file, or template.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 94 Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')
ParentOf 97 Improper Neutralization of Server-Side Includes (SSI) Within a W eb Page
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
ImplementationThis issue is frequently found in PHP applications that allow users to set configuration variables that are stored
within executable PHP files. Technically , this could also be performed in some compiled code (e.g., by byte-
patching an executable), although it is highly unlikely .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Interpreted (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Read Application Data
The injected code could access restricted data / files.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
In some cases, injectable code controls authentication; this may lead to a remote vulnerability .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Injected code can access resources that the attacker is directly prevented from accessing.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Code injection attacks can lead to loss of data integrity in nearly all cases as the control-plane
data injected is always incidental to data recall or writing. Additionally , code injection can often
result in the execution of arbitrary code.
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
Often the actions performed by injected control code are unlogged.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example attempts to write user messages to a message file and allow users to view them.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-96: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Statically Saved Code ('Static Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/96.html 2/3While the programmer intends for the MessageFile to only include data, an attacker can provide a message such as:
which will decode to the following:
The programmer thought they were just including the contents of a regular data file, but PHP parsed it and executed the code. Now ,
this code is executed any time people view messages.
Notice that XSS ( CWE-79 ) is also possible in this situation.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0495 Perl code directly injected into CGI library file from parameters to another CGI program.
CVE-2005-1876 Direct PHP code injection into supporting template file.
CVE-2005-1894 Direct code injection into PHP script that can be accessed by attacker .
CVE-2003-0395 PHP code from User-Agent HTTP header directly inserted into log file implemented as PHP script.
CVE-2007-6652 chain: execution after redirect allows non-administrator to perform static code injection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Perform proper output validation and escaping to neutralize all code syntax from data written to code files.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
$MessageFile = "messages.out";
if ($\_GET["action"] == "NewMessage") {
$name = $\_GET["name"];
$message = $\_GET["message"];
$handle = fopen($MessageFile, "a+");
fwrite($handle, "**$name** says '$message'

---

\n");
fclose($handle);
echo "Message Saved!\n";
}
else if ($\_GET["action"] == "ViewMessages") {
include($MessageFile);
}
(attack code) 
name=h4x0r
message=%3C?php%20system(%22/bin/ls%20-l%22);?%3E
(attack code) 
php system("/bin/ls -l");?3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-96: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Statically Saved Code ('Static Code Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/96.html 3/3MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
"HTML injection" (see CWE-79 : XSS) could be thought of as an example of this, but the code is injected and executed on the client
side, not the server side. Server-Side Includes (SSI) are an example of direct static code injection.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Direct Static Code Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted Input to Command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-35 Leverage Executable Code in Non-Executable Files
CAPEC-73 User-Controlled Filename
CAPEC-77 Manipulating User-Controlled V ariables
CAPEC-81 Web Server Logs Tampering
CAPEC-85 AJAX Footprinting
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names


