3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1279: Cryptographic Operations are run Before Supporting Units are Ready (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1279.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1279: Cryptographic Operations are run Before Supporting Units are Ready
Weakness ID: 1279
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Performing cryptographic operations without ensuring that the supporting inputs are ready to supply valid data may compromise the
cryptographic result.
 Extended Description
Many cryptographic hardware units depend upon other hardware units to supply information to them to produce a securely encrypted
result. For example, a cryptographic unit that depends on an external random-number-generator (RNG) unit for entropy must wait until
the RNG unit is producing random numbers. If a cryptographic unit retrieves a private encryption key from a fuse unit, the fuse unit
must be up and running before a key may be supplied.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 665 Improper Initialization
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1205 Security Primitives and Cryptography Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationThe decision to continue using a cryptographic unit even though the input units to it are not producing
valid data will compromise the encrypted result.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Accountability
Authentication
Authorization
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1279: Cryptographic Operations are run Before Supporting Units are Ready (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1279.html 2/2Example 1
The following pseudocode illustrates the weak encryption resulting from the use of a pseudo-random-number generator output.
In the example above, first a check of RNG ready is performed. If the check fails, the RNG is ignored and a hard coded value is used
instead. The hard coded value severely weakens the encrypted output.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Best practices should be used to design cryptographic systems.
Phase: Implementation
Continuously ensuring that cryptographic inputs are supplying valid information is necessary to ensure that the encrypted output
is secure.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-97 Cryptanalysis
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
(bad code) Example Language: Pseudocode 
If random\_number\_generator\_self\_test\_passed() == TRUE
then Seed = get\_random\_number\_from\_RNG()
else Seed = hardcoded\_number
(good code) Example Language: Pseudocode 
If random\_number\_generator\_self\_test\_passed() == TRUE
then Seed = get\_random\_number\_from\_RNG()
else enter\_error\_state()