3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during T ransient Execution
Weakness ID: 1420
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
A processor event or prediction may allow incorrect operations (or correct operations with incorrect data) to execute transiently ,
potentially exposing data over a covert channel.
 Extended Description
When operations execute but do not commit to the processor's architectural state, this is commonly referred to as transient execution.
This behavior can occur when the processor mis-predicts an outcome (such as a branch target), or when a processor event (such as
an exception or microcode assist, etc.) is handled after younger operations have already executed. Operations that execute
transiently may exhibit observable discrepancies ( CWE-203 ) in covert channels [ REF-1400 ] such as data caches. Observable
discrepancies of this kind can be detected and analyzed using timing or power analysis techniques, which may allow an attacker to
infer information about the operations that executed transiently . For example, the attacker may be able to infer confidential data that
was accessed or used by those operations.
Transient execution weaknesses may be exploited using one of two methods. In the first method, the attacker generates a code
sequence that exposes data through a covert channel when it is executed transiently (the attacker must also be able to trigger
transient execution). Some transient execution weaknesses can only expose data that is accessible within the attacker's processor
context. For example, an attacker executing code in a software sandbox may be able to use a transient execution weakness to
expose data within the same address space, but outside of the attacker's sandbox. Other transient execution weaknesses can expose
data that is architecturally inaccessible, that is, data protected by hardware-enforced boundaries such as page tables or privilege
rings. These weaknesses are the subject of CWE-1421 .
In the second exploitation method, the attacker first identifies a code sequence in a victim program that, when executed transiently ,
can expose data that is architecturally accessible within the victim's processor context. For instance, the attacker may search the
victim program for code sequences that resemble a bounds-check bypass sequence (see Demonstrative Example 1). If the attacker
can trigger a mis-prediction of the conditional branch and influence the index of the out-of-bounds array access, then the attacker may
be able to infer the value of out-of-bounds data by monitoring observable discrepancies in a covert channel.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
ParentOf 1421 Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transient
Execution
ParentOf 1422 Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient
Execution
ParentOf 1423 Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State that
Influences Transient Execution
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
MemberOf 1201 Core and Compute Issues
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
ParentOf 1421 Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transient
Execution
ParentOf 1422 Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Incorrect Data Forwarding during Transient
Execution
ParentOf 1423 Exposure of Sensitive Information caused by Shared Microarchitectural Predictor State that
Influences Transient Execution
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can be introduced when a computing unit (such as a CPU, GPU, accelerator , or any
other processor) uses out-of-order execution, speculation, or any other microarchitectural feature that
can allow microarchitectural operations to execute without committing to architectural state.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 2/6ImplementationThis weakness can be introduced when sandboxes or managed runtimes are not properly isolated by
using hardware-enforced boundaries. Developers of sandbox or managed runtime software should
exercise caution when relying on software techniques (such as bounds checking) to prevent code in
one sandbox from accessing confidential data in another sandbox. For example, an attacker sandbox
may be able to trigger a processor event or mis-prediction in a manner that allows it to transiently read
a victim sandbox's private data.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Secure programs perform bounds checking before accessing an array if the source of the array index is provided by an untrusted
source such as user input. In the code below , data from array1 will not be accessed if x is out of bounds. The following code snippet is
from [ REF-1415 ]:
However , if this code executes on a processor that performs conditional branch prediction the outcome of the if statement could be
mis-predicted and the access on the next line will occur with a value of x that can point to an out-of-bounds location (within the
program's memory).
Even though the processor does not commit the architectural ef fects of the mis-predicted branch, the memory accesses alter data
cache state, which is not rolled back after the branch is resolved. The cache state can reveal array1[x] thereby providing a mechanism
to recover the data value located at address array1 + x.
Example 2
Some managed runtimes or just-in-time (JIT) compilers may overwrite recently executed code with new code. When the instruction
pointer enters the new code, the processor may inadvertently execute the stale code that had been overwritten. This can happen, for
instance, when the processor issues a store that overwrites a sequence of code, but the processor fetches and executes the (stale)
code before the store updates memory . Similar to the first example, the processor does not commit the stale code's architectural
effects, though microarchitectural side ef fects can persist. Hence, confidential information accessed or used by the stale code may be
inferred via an observable discrepancy in a covert channel. This vulnerability is described in more detail in [ REF-1427 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-5753 Microarchitectural conditional branch predictors may allow operations to execute transiently after a
misprediction, potentially exposing data over a covert channel.
CVE-2021-0089 A machine clear triggered by self-modifying code may allow incorrect operations to execute transiently ,
potentially exposing data over a covert channel.
CVE-2022-0002 Microarchitectural indirect branch predictors may allow incorrect operations to execute transiently after
a misprediction, potentially exposing data over a covert channel.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The hardware designer can attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies in specific covert
channels.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique has many pitfalls. For example, InvisiSpec was an early attempt to mitigate this weakness by blocking "micro-
architectural covert and side channels through the multiprocessor data cache hierarchy due to speculative loads" [ REF-1417 ].
Commodity processors and SoCs have many covert and side channels that exist outside of the data cache hierarchy . Even
when some of these channels are blocked, others (such as execution ports [ REF-1418 ]) may allow an attacker to infer
confidential data. Mitigation strategies that attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies also
have other pitfalls, for example, see [ REF-1419 ].
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (x < array1\_size)
y = array2[array1[x] \* 4096];3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 3/6Phase: Requirements
Processor designers may expose instructions or other architectural features that allow software to mitigate the ef fects of
transient execution, but without disabling predictors. These features may also help to limit opportunities for data exposure.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Instructions or features that constrain transient execution or suppress its side ef fects may impact performance.
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers may expose registers (for example, control registers or model-specific registers) that allow privileged
and/or user software to disable specific predictors or other hardware features that can cause confidential data to be exposed
during transient execution.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Disabling specific predictors or other hardware features may result in significant performance overhead.
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers, system software vendors, or other agents may choose to restrict the ability of unprivileged software to
access to high-resolution timers that are commonly used to monitor covert channels.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
Specific software algorithms can be used by an attacker to compensate for a lack of a high-resolution time source [ REF-1420 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
Isolate sandboxes or managed runtimes in separate address spaces (separate processes). For examples, see [ REF-1421 ].
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Build and Compilation
Include serialization instructions (for example, LFENCE) that prevent processor events or mis-predictions prior to the
serialization instruction from causing transient execution after the serialization instruction. For some weaknesses, a serialization
instruction can also prevent a processor event or a mis-prediction from occurring after the serialization instruction (for example,
CVE-2018-3639 can allow a processor to predict that a load will not depend on an older store; a serialization instruction between
the store and the load may allow the store to update memory and prevent the prediction from happening at all).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
When used to comprehensively mitigate a transient execution weakness (for example, by inserting an LFENCE after every
instruction in a program), serialization instructions can introduce significant performance overhead. On the other hand, when
used to mitigate only a relatively small number of high-risk code sequences, serialization instructions may have a low or
negligible impact on performance.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use control-flow integrity (CFI) techniques to constrain the behavior of instructions that redirect the instruction pointer , such as
indirect branch instructions.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Some CFI techniques may not be able to constrain transient execution, even though they are ef fective at constraining
architectural execution. Or they may be able to provide some additional protection against a transient execution weakness, but
without comprehensively mitigating the weakness. For example, Clang-CFI provides strong architectural CFI properties and can
make some transient execution weaknesses more dif ficult to exploit [ REF-1398 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
If the weakness is exposed by a single instruction (or a small set of instructions), then the compiler (or JIT , etc.) can be
configured to prevent the af fected instruction(s) from being generated, and instead generate an alternate sequence of
instructions that is not af fected by the weakness. One prominent example of this mitigation is retpoline ([ REF-1414 ]).
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique may only be ef fective for software that is compiled with this mitigation. For some transient execution
weaknesses, this technique may not be suf ficient to protect software that is compiled without the af fected instruction(s). For
example, see CWE-1421 .
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques that can mitigate the consequences of transient execution. For example, address masking can be used
in some circumstances to prevent out-of-bounds transient reads.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Address masking and related software mitigation techniques have been used to harden specific code sequences that could
potentially be exploited via transient execution. For example, the Linux kernel makes limited use of manually inserted address3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 4/6masks to mitigate bounds-check bypass [ REF-1390 ]. Compiler-based techniques have also been used to automatically harden
software [ REF-1425 ].
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques (including the use of serialization instructions) that are intended to reduce the number of instructions
that can be executed transiently after a processor event or misprediction.
Effectiveness: Incidental
Note:
Some transient execution weaknesses can be exploited even if a single instruction is executed transiently after a processor
event or mis-prediction. This mitigation strategy has many other pitfalls that prevent it from eliminating this weakness entirely .
For example, see [ REF-1389 ].
Phase: Documentation
If a hardware feature can allow incorrect operations (or correct operations with incorrect data) to execute transiently , the
hardware designer may opt to disclose this behavior in architecture documentation. This documentation can inform users about
potential consequences and ef fective mitigations.
Effectiveness: High
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected in hardware by manually inspecting processor specifications. Features that exhibit this
weakness may include microarchitectural predictors, access control checks that occur out-of-order , or any other features that
can allow operations to execute without committing to architectural state. Academic researchers have demonstrated that new
hardware weaknesses can be discovered by exhaustively analyzing a processor's machine clear (or nuke) conditions ([ REF-
1427 ]).
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Hardware designers can also scrutinize aspects of the instruction set architecture that have undefined behavior; these can
become a focal point when applying other detection methods.
Manual analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection
methods to improve coverage.
Fuzzing
Academic researchers have demonstrated that this weakness can be detected in hardware using software fuzzing tools that
treat the underlying hardware as a black box ([ REF-1428 ]).
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
Note:
Fuzzing may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection methods to
improve coverage.
Fuzzing
Academic researchers have demonstrated that this weakness can be detected in software using software fuzzing tools ([ REF-
1429 ]).
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
Note:
At the time of this writing, publicly available software fuzzing tools can only detect a subset of transient execution weaknesses in
software (for example, [ REF-1429 ] can only detect instances of Spectre v1) and may produce false positives.
Automated Static Analysis
A variety of automated static analysis tools can identify potentially exploitable code sequences in software. These tools may
perform the analysis on source code, on binary code, or on an intermediate code representation (for example, during
compilation).
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
At the time of this writing, publicly available software static analysis tools can only detect a subset of transient execution
weaknesses in software and may produce false positives.
Automated Analysis
Software vendors can release tools that detect presence of known weaknesses on a processor . For example, some of these
tools can attempt to transiently execute a vulnerable code sequence and detect whether code successfully leaks data in a
manner consistent with the weakness under test. Alternatively , some hardware vendors provide enumeration for the presence of
a weakness (or lack of a weakness). These enumeration bits can be checked and reported by system software. For example,
Linux supports these checks for many commodity processors:
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep bugs | head -n 1
bugs : cpu\_meltdown spectre\_v1 spectre\_v2 spec\_store\_bypass l1tf mds swapgs taa itlb\_multihit srbds mmio\_stale\_data
retbleed
Effectiveness: High3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 5/6Note:
This method can be useful for detecting whether a processor is af fected by known weaknesses, but it may not be useful for
detecting unknown weaknesses.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
A vulnerability should only map to CWE-1420 if it cannot map to any of CWE-1420 's child weaknesses.
 References
[REF-1389] Alyssa Milburn, Ke Sun and Henrique Kawakami. "Y ou Cannot Always Win the Race: Analyzing the LFENCE/JMP
Mitigation for Branch Target Injection". 2022-03-08. < https://arxiv .org/abs/2203.04277 >. URL validated: 2024-02-22 .
[REF-1417] Mengjia Yan, Jiho Choi, Dimitrios Skarlatos, Adam Morrison, Christopher W . Fletcher and Josep Torrella. "InvisiSpec:
making speculative execution invisible in the cache hierarchy .". 2019-05. < http://iacoma.cs.uiuc.edu/iacoma-papers/micro18.pdf >.
URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1418] Alejandro Cabrera Aldaya, Billy Bob Brumley , Sohaib ul Hassan, Cesar Pereida García and Nicola Tuveri. "Port
Contention for Fun and Profit". 2019-05. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2018/1060.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1419] Mohammad Behnia, Prateek Sahu, Riccardo Paccagnella, Jiyong Yu, Zirui Zhao, Xiang Zou, Thomas Unterluggauer ,
Josep Torrellas, Carlos Rozas, Adam Morrison, Frank Mckeen, Fangfei Liu, Ron Gabor , Christopher W . Fletcher , Abhishek Basak
and Alaa Alameldeen. "Speculative Interference Attacks: Breaking Invisible Speculation Schemes". 2021-04.
. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1420] Ross Mcilroy , Jaroslav Sevcik, Tobias Tebbi, Ben L. Titzer and Toon V erwaest. "Spectre is here to stay: An analysis of
side-channels and speculative execution". 2019-02-14. < https://arxiv .org/pdf/1902.05178.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1421] Intel Corporation. "Managed Runtime Speculative Execution Side Channel Mitigations". 2018-01-03.
. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1398] The Clang Team. "Control Flow Integrity". < https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ControlFlowIntegrity .html >. URL validated:
2024-02-13 .
[REF-1414] Intel Corporation. "Retpoline: A Branch Target Injection Mitigation". 2022-08-22.
. URL validated: 2023-02-13 .
[REF-1390] The kernel development community . "Speculation". 2020-08-16.
. URL validated: 2024-02-04 .
[REF-1425] Chandler Carruth. "Speculative Load Hardening". < https://llvm.org/docs/SpeculativeLoadHardening.html >. URL
validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1427] Hany Ragab, Enrico Barberis, Herbert Bos and Cristiano Giuf frida. "Rage Against the Machine Clear: A Systematic
Analysis of Machine Clears and Their Implications for Transient Execution Attacks". 2021-08.
. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1428] Oleksii Oleksenko, Marco Guarnieri, Boris Köpf and Mark Silberstein. "Hide and Seek with Spectres: Ef ficient
discovery of speculative information leaks with random testing". 2023-01-18. < https://arxiv .org/pdf/2301.07642.pdf >. URL
validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1429] Oleksii Oleksenko, Bohdan Trach, Mark Silberstein and Christof Fetzer . "SpecFuzz: Bringing Spectre-type
vulnerabilities to the surface". 2020-08. < https://www .usenix.org/system/files/sec20-oleksenko.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1415] Paul Kocher , Jann Horn, Anders Fogh, Daniel Genkin, Daniel Gruss, W erner Haas, Mike Hamburg, Moritz Lipp,
Stefan Mangard, Thomas Prescher , Michael Schwarz and Yuval Yarom. "Spectre Attacks: Exploiting Speculative Execution".
2019-05. < https://spectreattack.com/spectre.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1400] Intel Corporation. "Refined Speculative Execution Terminology". 2022-03-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1420: Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1420.html 6/6
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2023-09-19
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Scott D. Constable Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)David Kaplan AMD
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Rafael Dossantos, Abraham Fernandez Rubio, Alric Althof f, Lyndon Fawcett Arm
Members of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Jason Oberg Cycuity
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Priya B. Iyer Intel Corporation
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Nicole Fern Riscure
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group