3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1024: Comparison of Incompatible Types (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1024.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1024: Comparison of Incompatible T ypes
Weakness ID: 1024
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a comparison between two entities, but the entities are of dif ferent, incompatible types that cannot be
guaranteed to provide correct results when they are directly compared.
 Extended Description
In languages that are strictly typed but support casting/conversion, such as C or C++, the programmer might assume that casting one
entity to the same type as another entity will ensure that the comparison will be performed correctly , but this cannot be guaranteed. In
languages that are not strictly typed, such as PHP or JavaScript, there may be implicit casting/conversion to a type that the
programmer is unaware of, causing unexpected results; for example, the string "123" might be converted to a number type. See
examples.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 697 Incorrect Comparison
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Thoroughly test the comparison scheme before deploying code into production. Perform positive testing as well as negative
testing.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1024: Comparison of Incompatible Types (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1024.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-01-04
(CWE 3.1, 2018-03-29)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications