3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-918: Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/918.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-918: Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
Weakness ID: 918
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web server receives a URL or similar request from an upstream component and retrieves the contents of this URL, but it does not
sufficiently ensure that the request is being sent to the expected destination.
 Extended Description
By providing URLs to unexpected hosts or ports, attackers can make it appear that the server is sending the request, possibly
bypassing access controls such as firewalls that prevent the attackers from accessing the URLs directly . The server can be used as a
proxy to conduct port scanning of hosts in internal networks, use other URLs such as that can access documents on the system
(using file://), or use other protocols such as gopher:// or tftp://, which may provide greater control over the contents of requests.
 Alternate T erms
XSPA: Cross Site Port Attack
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-26855 Server Side Request Forgery (SSRF) in mail server , as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-21973 Server Side Request Forgery in cloud platform, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2016-4029 Chain: incorrect validation of intended decimal-based IP address format ( CWE-1286 ) enables parsing
of octal or hexadecimal formats ( CWE-1389 ), allowing bypass of an SSRF protection mechanism
(CWE-918 ).
CVE-2002-1484 Web server allows attackers to request a URL from another server , including other ports, which allows
proxied scanning.
CVE-2004-2061 CGI script accepts and retrieves incoming URLs.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-918: Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/918.html 2/3CVE-2010-1637 Web-based mail program allows internal network scanning using a modified POP3 port number .
CVE-2009-0037 URL-downloading library automatically follows redirects to file:// and scp:// URLs
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1356 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A10:2021 - Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-918 (SSRF) and CWE-611 (XXE) are closely related, because they both involve web-related technologies and can launch
outbound requests to unexpected destinations. However , XXE can be performed client-side, or in other contexts in which the
software is not acting directly as a server , so the "Server" portion of the SSRF acronym does not necessarily apply .
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-664 Server Side Request Forgery
 References
[REF-913] Alexander Polyakov and Dmitry Chastukhin. "SSRF vs. Business-critical applications: XXE tunneling in SAP". 2012-07-
26. < https://media.blackhat.com/bh-us-12/Briefings/Polyakov/BH\_US\_12\_Polyakov\_SSRF\_Business\_Slides.pdf >.
[REF-914] Alexander Polyakov , Dmitry Chastukhin and Alexey Tyurin. "SSRF vs. Business-critical Applications. Part 1: XXE
Tunnelling in SAP NetW eaver". < http://erpscan.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/SSRF-vs-Businness-critical-applications-
whitepaper .pdf>.
[REF-915] Riyaz Ahemed W alikar . "Cross Site Port Attacks - XSP A - Part 1". 2012-11-07. < https://ibreak.software/2012/11/cross-
site-port-attacks-xspa-part-1/ >.
[REF-916] Riyaz Ahemed W alikar . "Cross Site Port Attacks - XSP A - Part 2". 2012-11-13. < https://ibreak.software/2012/11/cross-
site-port-attacks-xspa-part-2/ >.
[REF-917] Riyaz Ahemed W alikar . "Cross Site Port Attacks - XSP A - Part 3". 2012-11-14. < https://ibreak.software/2012/11/cross-
site-port-attacks-xspa-part-3/ >.
[REF-918] Vladimir V orontsov and Alexander Golovko. "SSRF attacks and sockets: smorgasbord of vulnerabilities".
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-919] ONsec Lab. "SSRF bible. Cheatsheet". 2013-01-26.
.
[REF-920] Deral Heiland. "W eb Portals: Gateway To Information, Or A Hole In Our Perimeter Defenses". 2008-02.
.
 Content History
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-918: Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/918.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-02-17
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications