3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1316: Fabric-Address Map Allows Programming of Unwarranted Overlaps of Protected and Unp…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1316.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1316: Fabric-Address Map Allows Programming of Unwarranted Overlaps of
Protected and Unprotected Ranges
Weakness ID: 1316
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The address map of the on-chip fabric has protected and unprotected regions overlapping, allowing an attacker to bypass access
control to the overlapping portion of the protected region.
 Extended Description
Various ranges can be defined in the system-address map, either in the memory or in Memory-Mapped-IO (MMIO) space. These
ranges are usually defined using special range registers that contain information, such as base address and size. Address decoding is
the process of determining for which range the incoming transaction is destined. To ensure isolation, ranges containing secret data
are access-control protected.
Occasionally , these ranges could overlap. The overlap could either be intentional (e.g. due to a limited number of range registers or
limited choice in choosing size of the range) or unintentional (e.g. introduced by errors). Some hardware designs allow dynamic
remapping of address ranges assigned to peripheral MMIO ranges. In such designs, intentional address overlaps can be created
through misconfiguration by malicious software. When protected and unprotected ranges overlap, an attacker could send a
transaction and potentially compromise the protections in place, violating the principle of least privilege.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Bus/Interface Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Memory; Modify MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1316: Fabric-Address Map Allows Programming of Unwarranted Overlaps of Protected and Unp…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1316.html 2/3An on-chip fabric supports a 64KB address space that is memory-mapped. The fabric has two range registers that support creation of
two protected ranges with specific size constraints--4KB, 8KB, 16KB or 32KB. Assets that belong to user A require 4KB, and those of
user B require 20KB. Registers and other assets that are not security-sensitive require 40KB. One range register is configured to
program 4KB to protect user A's assets. Since a 20KB range cannot be created with the given size constraints, the range register for
user B's assets is configured as 32KB. The rest of the address space is left as open. As a result, some part of untrusted and open-
address space overlaps with user B range.
The fabric does not support least privilege, and an attacker can send a transaction to the overlapping region to tamper with user B
data.
Since range B only requires 20KB but is allotted 32KB, there is 12KB of reserved space. Overlapping this region of user B data,
where there are no assets, with the untrusted space will prevent an attacker from tampering with user B data.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-4419 Attacker can modify MCHBAR register to overlap with an attacker-controlled region, which modification
prevents the SENTER instruction from properly applying VT -d protection while a Measured Launch
Environment is being launched.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
When architecting the address map of the chip, ensure that protected and unprotected ranges are isolated and do not overlap.
When designing, ensure that ranges hardcoded in Register-T ransfer Level (R TL) do not overlap.
Phase: Implementation
Ranges configured by firmware should not overlap. If overlaps are mandatory because of constraints such as a limited number
of registers, then ensure that no assets are present in the overlapped portion.
Phase: T esting
Validate mitigation actions with robust testing.
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Review address map in specification to see if there are any overlapping ranges.
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis
Negative testing of access control on overlapped ranges.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.6, CWE-1260 and CWE-1316 are siblings under view 1000, but CWE-1260 might be a parent of CWE-1316 . More
analysis is warranted.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-456 Infected Memory
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 References
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1316: Fabric-Address Map Allows Programming of Unwarranted Overlaps of Protected and Unp…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1316.html 3/3[REF-1137] Yuriy Bulygin, Oleksandr Bazhaniuk, Andrew Furtak, John Loucaides, Mikhail Gorobets. "BARing the System - New
vulnerabilities in Coreboot & UEFI-based Systems". 2017.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-01
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications