3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-108: Struts: Unvalidated Action Form (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/108.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-108: Struts: Unvalidated Action Form
Weakness ID: 108
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Every Action Form must have a corresponding validation form.
 Extended Description
If a Struts Action Form Mapping specifies a form, it must have a validation form defined under the Struts V alidator .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1173 Improper Use of V alidation Framework
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
If an action form mapping does not have a validation form defined, it may be vulnerable to a number
of attacks that rely on unchecked input. Unchecked input is the root cause of some of today's worst
and most common software security problems. Cross-site scripting, SQL injection, and process
control vulnerabilities all stem from incomplete or absent input validation.
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Although J2EE applications are not generally susceptible to memory corruption attacks, if a J2EE
application interfaces with native code that does not perform array bounds checking, an attacker may
be able to use an input validation mistake in the J2EE application to launch a buf fer overflow attack.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Map every Action Form to a corresponding validation form.
An action or a form may perform validation in other ways, but the Struts V alidator provides an excellent way to verify that all
input receives at least a basic level of validation. Without this approach, it is dif ficult, and often impossible, to establish with a
high level of confidence that all input is validated.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-108: Struts: Unvalidated Action Form (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/108.html 2/2MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: Unvalidated Action Form
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
