3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-440: Expected Behavior Violation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/440.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-440: Expected Behavior V iolation
Weakness ID: 440
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A feature, API, or function does not perform according to its specification.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 684 Incorrect Provision of Specified Functionality
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1208 Cross-Cutting Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation; Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The provided code is extracted from the Control and Status Register (CSR), csr\_regfile, module within the Hack@DAC'21 OpenPiton
System-on-Chip (SoC). This module is designed to implement CSR registers in accordance with the RISC-V specification. The mie
(machine interrupt enable) register is a 64-bit register [ REF-1384 ], where bits correspond to dif ferent interrupt sources. As the name
suggests, mie is a machine-level register that determines which interrupts are enabled. Note that in the example below the mie\_q and
mie\_d registers represent the conceptual mie reigster in the RISC-V specification. The mie\_d register is the value to be stored in the
mie register while the mie\_q register holds the current value of the mie register [ REF-1385 ].
The mideleg (machine interrupt delegation) register , also 64-bit wide, enables the delegation of specific interrupt sources from
machine privilege mode to lower privilege levels. By setting specific bits in the mideleg register , the handling of certain interrupts can
be delegated to lower privilege levels without engaging the machine-level privilege mode. For example, in supervisor mode, the mie
register is limited to a specific register called the sie (supervisor interrupt enable) register . If delegated, an interrupt becomes visible in
the sip (supervisor interrupt pending) register and can be enabled or blocked using the sie register . If no delegation occurs, the related
bits in sip and sie are set to zero.
The sie register value is computed based on the current value of mie register , i.e., mie\_q, and the mideleg register .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-440: Expected Behavior Violation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/440.html 2/3The above code snippet illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of the sie register update logic, where users can
tamper with the mie\_d register value through the utval (user trap value) register . This behavior violates the RISC-V specification.
The code shows that the value of utval, among other signals, is used in updating the mie\_d value within the sie update logic. While
utval is a register accessible to users, it should not influence or compromise the integrity of sie. Through manipulation of the utval
register , it becomes feasible to manipulate the sie register's value. This opens the door for potential attacks, as an adversary can gain
control over or corrupt the sie value. Consequently , such manipulation empowers an attacker to enable or disable critical supervisor-
level interrupts, resulting in various security risks such as privilege escalation or denial-of-service attacks.
A fix to this issue is to remove the utval from the right-hand side of the assignment. That is the value of the mie\_d should be updated
as shown in the good code example [ REF-1386 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-0187 Program uses large timeouts on unconfirmed connections resulting from inconsistency in linked lists
implementations.
CVE-2003-0465 "strncpy" in Linux kernel acts dif ferent than libc on x86, leading to expected behavior dif ference - sort of
a multiple interpretation error?
CVE-2005-3265 Buffer overflow in product stems the use of a third party library function that is expected to have internal
protection against overflows, but doesn't.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
module csr\_regfile #(...)(...);
...
// ---------------------------
// CSR Write and update logic
// ---------------------------
...
if (csr\_we) begin
unique case (csr\_addr.address)
...
riscv::CSR\_SIE: begin
// the mideleg makes sure only delegate-able register
//(and therefore also only implemented registers) are written
mie\_d = (mie\_q & ~mideleg\_q) | (csr\_wdata & mideleg\_q) | utval\_q;
end
...
endcase
end
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module csr\_regfile #(...)(...);
...
// ---------------------------
// CSR Write and update logic
// ---------------------------
...
if (csr\_we) begin
unique case (csr\_addr.address)
...
riscv::CSR\_SIE: begin
// the mideleg makes sure only delegate-able register
//(and therefore also only implemented registers) are written
mie\_d = (mie\_q & ~mideleg\_q) | (csr\_wdata & mideleg\_q);
end
...
endcase
end
endmodule3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-440: Expected Behavior Violation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/440.html 3/3Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
The behavior of an application that is not consistent with the expectations of the developer may lead to incorrect use of the software.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Expected behavior violation
 References
[REF-1384] "The RISC-V Instruction Set Manual V olume II: Privileged Architecture page 28". 2021. < https://riscv .org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/05/riscv-privileged-v1.10.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
[REF-1385] "csr\_regfile.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/csr\_regfile.sv >. URL
validated: 2024-01-16 .
[REF-1386] "Fix for csr\_regfile.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/2341c625a28d2fb87d370e32c45b68bd711cc43b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L519C
4-L522C20 >. URL validated: 2024-01-16 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications