3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-192: Integer Coercion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/192.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-192: Integer Coercion Error
Weakness ID: 192
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Integer coercion refers to a set of flaws pertaining to the type casting, extension, or truncation of primitive data types.
 Extended Description
Several flaws fall under the category of integer coercion errors. For the most part, these errors in and of themselves result only in
availability and data integrity issues. However , in some circumstances, they may result in other , more complicated security related
flaws, such as buf fer overflow conditions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Integer coercion often leads to undefined states of execution resulting in infinite loops or crashes.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
In some cases, integer coercion errors can lead to exploitable buf fer overflow conditions, resulting in
the execution of arbitrary code.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Integer coercion errors result in an incorrect value being stored for the variable in question.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code is intended to read an incoming packet from a socket and extract one or more headers.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
DataPacket \*packet;
int numHeaders;
PacketHeader \*headers;
sock=AcceptSocketConnection();
ReadPacket(packet, sock);
numHeaders =packet->headers;3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-192: Integer Coercion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/192.html 2/3The code performs a check to make sure that the packet does not contain too many headers. However , numHeaders is defined as a
signed int, so it could be negative. If the incoming packet specifies a value such as -3, then the malloc calculation will generate a
negative number (say , -300 if each header can be a maximum of 100 bytes). When this result is provided to malloc(), it is first
converted to a size\_t type. This conversion then produces a large value such as 4294966996, which may cause malloc() to fail or to
allocate an extremely large amount of memory ( CWE-195 ). With the appropriate negative numbers, an attacker could trick malloc()
into using a very small positive number , which then allocates a buf fer that is much smaller than expected, potentially leading to a
buffer overflow .
Example 2
The following code reads a maximum size and performs validation on that size. It then performs a strncpy , assuming it will not exceed
the boundaries of the array . While the use of "short s" is forced in this particular example, short int's are frequently used within real-
world code, such as code that processes structured data.
This code first exhibits an example of CWE-839 , allowing "s" to be a negative number . When the negative short "s" is converted to an
unsigned integer , it becomes an extremely large positive integer . When this converted integer is used by strncpy() it will lead to a
buffer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-2639 Chain: integer coercion error ( CWE-192 ) prevents a return value from indicating an error , leading to
out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
A language which throws exceptions on ambiguous data casts might be chosen.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design objects and program flow such that multiple or complex casts are unnecessary
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that any data type casting that you must used is entirely understood in order to reduce the plausibility of error in use.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysisif (numHeaders > 100) {
ExitError("too many headers!");
}
headers = malloc(numHeaders \* sizeof(PacketHeader);
ParsePacketHeaders(packet, headers);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int GetUntrustedInt () {
return(0x0000FFFF);
}
void main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char path[256];
char \*input;
int i;
short s;
unsigned int sz;
i = GetUntrustedInt();
s = i;
/\* s is -1 so it passes the safety check - CWE-697 \*/
if (s > 256) {
DiePainfully("go away!\n");
}
/\* s is sign-extended and saved in sz \*/
sz = s;
/\* output: i=65535, s=-1, sz=4294967295 - your mileage may vary \*/
printf("i=%d, s=%d, sz=%u\n", i, s, sz);
input = GetUserInput("Enter pathname:");
/\* strncpy interprets s as unsigned int, so it's treated as MAX\_INT
(CWE-195), enabling buffer overflow (CWE-119) \*/
strncpy(path, input, s);
path[255] = '\0'; /\* don't want CWE-170 \*/
printf("Path is: %s\n", path);
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-192: Integer Coercion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/192.html 3/3Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
Within C, it might be that "coercion" is semantically dif ferent than "casting", possibly depending on whether the programmer directly
specifies the conversion, or if the compiler does it implicitly . This has implications for the presentation of this entry and others, such
as CWE-681 , and whether there is enough of a dif ference for these entries to be split.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Integer coercion error
CER T C Secure Coding INT02-C Understand integer conversion rules
CER T C Secure Coding INT05-C Do not use input functions to convert character data if they cannot
handle all possible inputs
CER T C Secure Coding INT31-C Exact Ensure that integer conversions do not result in lost or misinterpreted
data
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 7: Integer Overflows."
Page 119. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Sign Extension",
Page 248. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
