3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1253: Incorrect Selection of Fuse Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1253.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1253: Incorrect Selection of Fuse V alues
Weakness ID: 1253
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The logic level used to set a system to a secure state relies on a fuse being unblown. An attacker can set the system to an insecure
state merely by blowing the fuse.
 Extended Description
Fuses are often used to store secret data, including security configuration data. When not blown, a fuse is considered to store a logic
0, and, when blown, it indicates a logic 1. Fuses are generally considered to be one-directional, i.e., once blown to logic 1, it cannot
be reset to logic 0. However , if the logic used to determine system-security state (by leveraging the values sensed from the fuses)
uses negative logic, an attacker might blow the fuse and drive the system to an insecure state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A chip implements a secure boot and uses the sensed value of a fuse "do\_secure\_boot" to determine whether to perform a secure
boot or not. If this fuse value is "0", the system performs secure boot. Otherwise, it does not perform secure boot.
An attacker blows the "do\_secure\_boot" fuse to "1". After reset, the attacker loads a custom bootloader , and, since the fuse value is
now "1", the system does not perform secure boot, and the attacker can execute their custom firmware image.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1253: Incorrect Selection of Fuse Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1253.html 2/2Since by default, a fuse-configuration value is a "0", an attacker can blow it to a "1" with inexpensive hardware.
If the logic is reversed, an attacker cannot easily reset the fuse. Note that, with specialized and expensive equipment, an attacker with
full physical access might be able to "unblow" the fuse value to a "0".
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Logic should be designed in a way that blown fuses do not put the product into an insecure state that can be leveraged by an
attacker .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-74 Manipulating State
 References
[REF-1080] Christopher Tarnovsky . "Security Failures in Secure Devices". < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-europe-
08/Tarnovsky/Presentation/bh-eu-08-tarnovsky .pdf>.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-15
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
