3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/95.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval
Injection')
Weakness ID: 95
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes code syntax before using
the input in a dynamic evaluation call (e.g. "eval").
 Extended Description
This may allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code, or at least modify what code can be executed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 94 Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
ImplementationThis weakness is prevalent in handler/dispatch procedures that might want to invoke a large number of
functions, or set a large number of variables.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Ruby (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Interpreted (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Read Application Data
The injected code could access restricted data / files.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
In some cases, injectable code controls authentication; this may lead to a remote vulnerability .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Injected code can access resources that the attacker is directly prevented from accessing.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Code injection attacks can lead to loss of data integrity in nearly all cases as the control-plane
data injected is always incidental to data recall or writing. Additionally , code injection can often
result in the execution of arbitrary code.
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
Often the actions performed by injected control code are unlogged.
 Likelihood Of ExploitAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/95.html 2/5Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
edit-config.pl: This CGI script is used to modify settings in a configuration file.
The script intends to take the 'action' parameter and invoke one of a variety of functions based on the value of that parameter -
config\_file\_add\_key(), config\_file\_set\_key(), or config\_file\_delete\_key(). It could set up a conditional to invoke each function
separately , but eval() is a powerful way of doing the same thing in fewer lines of code, especially when a large number of functions or
variables are involved. Unfortunately , in this case, the attacker can provide other values in the action parameter , such as:
This would produce the following string in handleConfigAction():
Any arbitrary Perl code could be added after the attacker has "closed of f" the construction of the original function call, in order to
prevent parsing errors from causing the malicious eval() to fail before the attacker's payload is activated. This particular manipulation
would fail after the system() call, because the "\_key(\$fname, \$key , \$val)" portion of the string would cause an error , but this is
irrelevant to the attack because the payload has already been activated.
Example 2
This simple script asks a user to supply a list of numbers as input and adds them together .(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
use CGI qw(:standard);
sub config\_file\_add\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to add a field/key to a file goes here
}
sub config\_file\_set\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to set key to a particular file goes here
}
sub config\_file\_delete\_key {
my ($fname, $key, $arg) = @\_;
# code to delete key from a particular file goes here
}
sub handleConfigAction {
my ($fname, $action) = @\_;
my $key = param('key');
my $val = param('val');
# this is super-efficient code, especially if you have to invoke
# any one of dozens of different functions!
my $code = "config\_file\_$action\_key(\$fname, \$key, \$val);";
eval($code);
}
$configfile = "/home/cwe/config.txt";
print header;
if (defined(param('action'))) {
handleConfigAction($configfile, param('action'));
}
else {
print "No action specified!\n";
}
(attack code) 
add\_key(",","); system("/bin/ls");
(result) 
config\_file\_add\_key(",","); system("/bin/ls");
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def main():
sum = 0
numbers = eval(input("Enter a space-separated list of numbers: "))
for num in numbers:
sum = sum + num
print(f"Sum of {numbers} = {sum}")
main()3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/95.html 3/5The eval() function can take the user-supplied list and convert it into a Python list object, therefore allowing the programmer to use list
comprehension methods to work with the data. However , if code is supplied to the eval() function, it will execute that code. For
example, a malicious user could supply the following string:
This would delete all the files in the current directory . For this reason, it is not recommended to use eval() with untrusted input.
A way to accomplish this without the use of eval() is to apply an integer conversion on the input within a try/except block. If the user-
supplied input is not numeric, this will raise a V alueError . By avoiding eval(), there is no opportunity for the input string to be executed
as code.
An alternative, commonly-cited mitigation for this kind of weakness is to use the ast.literal\_eval() function, since it is intentionally
designed to avoid executing code. However , an adversary could still cause excessive memory or stack consumption via deeply
nested structures [ REF-1372 ], so the python documentation discourages use of ast.literal\_eval() on untrusted data [ REF-1373 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-2054 Python compiler uses eval() to execute malicious strings as Python code.
CVE-2021-22204 Chain: regex in EXIF processor code does not correctly determine where a string ends ( CWE-625 ),
enabling eval injection ( CWE-95 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-22205 Chain: backslash followed by a newline can bypass a validation step ( CWE-20 ), leading to eval
injection ( CWE-95 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2008-5071 Eval injection in PHP program.
CVE-2002-1750 Eval injection in Perl program.
CVE-2008-5305 Eval injection in Perl program using an ID that should only contain hyphens and numbers.
CVE-2002-1752 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2002-1753 Eval injection in Perl program.
CVE-2005-1527 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2005-2837 Direct code injection into Perl eval function.
CVE-2005-1921 MFV. code injection into PHP eval statement using nested constructs that should not be nested.
CVE-2005-2498 MFV. code injection into PHP eval statement using nested constructs that should not be nested.
CVE-2005-3302 Code injection into Python eval statement from a field in a formatted file.
CVE-2007-1253 Eval injection in Python program.
CVE-2001-1471 chain: Resultant eval injection. An invalid value prevents initialization of variables, which can be
modified by attacker and later injected into PHP eval statement.
CVE-2007-2713 Chain: Execution after redirect triggers eval injection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If possible, refactor your code so that it does not need to use eval() at all.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation(attack code) 
\_\_import\_\_('subprocess').getoutput('rm -r \*')
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def main():
sum = 0
numbers = input("Enter a space-separated list of numbers: ").split(" ")
try:
for num in numbers:
sum = sum + int(num)
print(f"Sum of {numbers} = {sum}")
except ValueError:
print("Error: invalid input")
main()3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/95.html 4/5Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180, CWE-181 ). Make sure that your application does not inadvertently decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors
could be used to bypass allowlist schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked. Use libraries such as
the OW ASP ESAPI Canonicalization control.
Consider performing repeated canonicalization until your input does not change any more. This will avoid double-decoding and
similar scenarios, but it might inadvertently modify inputs that are allowed to contain properly-encoded dangerous content.
Phase: Implementation
For Python programs, it is frequently encouraged to use the ast.literal\_eval() function instead of eval, since it is intentionally
designed to avoid executing code. However , an adversary could still cause excessive memory or stack consumption via deeply
nested structures [ REF-1372 ], so the python documentation discourages use of ast.literal\_eval() on untrusted data [ REF-1373 ].
Effectiveness: Discouraged Common Practice
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 714 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A3 - Malicious File Execution
MemberOf 727 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A6 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
Factors: special character errors can play a role in increasing the variety of code that can be injected, although some vulnerabilities
do not require special characters at all, e.g. when a single function without arguments can be referenced and a terminator character
is not necessary .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Direct Dynamic Code Evaluation ('Eval Injection')
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A3 CWE More Specific Malicious File Execution
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A6 CWE More Specific Injection Flaws
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS35-PL Exact Do not invoke the eval form with a string argument
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-35 Leverage Executable Code in Non-Executable Files
3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-95: Improper Neutralization of Directives in Dynamically Evaluated Code ('Eval Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/95.html 5/5
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 18, "Inline
Evaluation", Page 1095. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1372] "How ast.literal\_eval can cause memory exhaustion". Reddit. 2022-12-14.
. URL validated:
2023-11-03 .
[REF-1373] "ast - Abstract Syntax Trees". ast.literal\_eval(node\_or\_string). Python. 2023-11-02.
. URL validated: 2023-11-03 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names