3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-401: Missing Release of Memory after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/401.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-401: Missing Release of Memory after Effective Lifetime
Weakness ID: 401
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not suf ficiently track and release allocated memory after it has been used, which slowly consumes remaining
memory .
 Extended Description
This is often triggered by improper handling of malformed data or unexpectedly interrupted sessions. In some languages, developers
are responsible for tracking memory allocation and releasing the memory . If there are no more pointers or references to the memory ,
then it can no longer be tracked and identified for release.
 Alternate T erms
Memory Leak
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 772 Missing Release of Resource after Ef fective Lifetime
CanFollow 390 Detection of Error Condition Without Action
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationMemory leaks have two common and sometimes overlapping causes:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for freeing the memory
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Memory)
Most memory leaks result in general product reliability problems, but if an attacker can intentionally
trigger a memory leak, the attacker might be able to launch a denial of service attack (by crashing or
hanging the program) or take advantage of other unexpected program behavior resulting from a low
memory condition.
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Performance
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following C function leaks a block of allocated memory if the call to read() does not return the expected number of bytes:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-401: Missing Release of Memory after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/401.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-3119 Memory leak because function does not free() an element of a data structure.
CVE-2004-0427 Memory leak when counter variable is not decremented.
CVE-2002-0574 chain: reference count is not decremented, leading to memory leak in OS by sending ICMP packets.
CVE-2005-3181 Kernel uses wrong function to release a data structure, preventing data from being properly tracked by
other code.
CVE-2004-0222 Memory leak via unknown manipulations as part of protocol test suite.
CVE-2001-0136 Memory leak via a series of the same command.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Choose a language or tool that provides automatic memory management, or makes manual memory management less error-
prone.
For example, glibc in Linux provides protection against free of invalid pointers.
When using Xcode to target OS X or iOS, enable automatic reference counting (ARC) [ REF-391 ].
To help correctly and consistently manage memory when programming in C++, consider using a smart pointer class such as
std::auto\_ptr (defined by ISO/IEC ISO/IEC 14882:2003), std::shared\_ptr and std::unique\_ptr (specified by an upcoming revision
of the C++ standard, informally referred to as C++ 1x), or equivalent solutions such as Boost.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Not a complete solution.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Build and Compilation
The Boehm-Demers-W eiser Garbage Collector or valgrind can be used to detect leaks in code.
Note: This is not a complete solution as it is not 100% ef fective.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Memory Management
 Affected Resources
Memorychar\* getBlock(int fd) {
char\* buf = (char\*) malloc(BLOCK\_SIZE);
if (!buf) {
return NULL;
}
if (read(fd, buf, BLOCK\_SIZE) != BLOCK\_SIZE) {
return NULL;
}
return buf;
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-401: Missing Release of Memory after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/401.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1238 SFP Primary Cluster: Failure to Release Memory
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is often a resultant weakness due to improper handling of malformed data or early termination of sessions.
Terminology
"memory leak" has sometimes been used to describe other kinds of issues, e.g. for information leaks in which the contents of
memory are inadvertently leaked (CVE-2003-0400 is one such example of this terminology conflict).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Memory leak
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Memory Leak
CLASP Failure to deallocate data
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
CER T C Secure Coding MEM31-C Exact Free dynamically allocated memory when no longer
needed
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC04-J Do not leak memory
Software Fault Patterns SFP14 Failure to Release Resource
OMG ASCPEM ASCPEM-
PRF-14
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-390] J. Whittaker and H. Thompson. "How to Break Software Security". Addison W esley . 2003.
[REF-391] iOS Developer Library . "Transitioning to ARC Release Notes". 2013-08-08.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-959] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Performance Ef ficiency Measure (ASCPEM)". ASCPEM-
PRF-14. 2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCPEM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
