3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-393: Return of Wrong Status Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/393.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-393: Return of W rong Status Code
Weakness ID: 393
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A function or operation returns an incorrect return value or status code that does not indicate an error , but causes the product to
modify its behavior based on the incorrect result.
 Extended Description
This can lead to unpredictable behavior . If the function is used to make security-critical decisions or provide security-critical
information, then the wrong status code can cause the product to assume that an action is safe, even when it is not.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 703 Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 684 Incorrect Provision of Specified Functionality
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Alter Execution Logic
This weakness could place the system in a state that could lead unexpected logic to be executed or other
unintended behaviors.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, an HTTP 404 status code is returned in the event of an IOException encountered in a Java servlet. A 404
code is typically meant to indicate a non-existent resource and would be somewhat misleading in this case.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-1132 DNS server returns wrong response code for non-existent AAAA record, which ef fectively says that the
domain is inaccessible.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
// something that might throw IOException
...
} catch (IOException ioe) {
response.sendError(SC\_NOT\_FOUND);
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-393: Return of Wrong Status Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/393.html 2/2CVE-2001-1509 Hardware-specific implementation of system call causes incorrect results from geteuid.
CVE-2001-1559 Chain: System call returns wrong value ( CWE-393 ), leading to a resultant NULL dereference ( CWE-
476).
CVE-2014-1266 chain: incorrect "goto" in Apple SSL product bypasses certificate validation, allowing Adversary-in-the-
Middle (AITM) attack (Apple "goto fail" bug). CWE-705 (Incorrect Control Flow Scoping) -> CWE-561
(Dead Code) -> CWE-295 (Improper Certificate V alidation) -> CWE-393 (Return of W rong Status
Code) -> CWE-300 (Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint).
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 961 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Exception Behavior
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can be primary or resultant, but it is probably most often primary to other issues.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Wrong Status Code
Software Fault Patterns SFP6 Incorrect Exception Behavior
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
