3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1335.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer
Weakness ID: 1335
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An integer value is specified to be shifted by a negative amount or an amount greater than or equal to the number of bits contained in
the value causing an unexpected or indeterminate result.
 Extended Description
Specifying a value to be shifted by a negative amount is undefined in various languages. V arious computer architectures implement
this action in dif ferent ways. The compilers and interpreters when generating code to accomplish a shift generally do not do a check
for this issue.
Specifying an over-shift, a shift greater than or equal to the number of bits contained in a value to be shifted, produces a result which
varies by architecture and compiler . In some languages, this action is specifically listed as producing an undefined result.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation Adding shifts without properly verifying the size and sign of the shift amount.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A negative shift amount for an x86 or x86\_64 shift instruction will produce the number of bits to be shifted by taking a 2's-complement
of the shift amount and ef fectively masking that amount to the lowest 6 bits for a 64 bit shift instruction.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned int r = 1 << -5;3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1335.html 2/3The example above ends up with a shift amount of -5. The hexadecimal value is FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFD which, when bits above the
6th bit are masked of f, the shift amount becomes a binary shift value of 111101 which is 61 decimal. A shift of 61 produces a very
different result than -5. The previous example is a very simple version of the following code which is probably more realistic of what
happens in a real system.
Note that the good example not only checks for negative shifts and disallows them, but it also checks for over-shifts. No bit operation
is done if the shift is out of bounds. Depending on the program, perhaps an error message should be logged.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-4307 An unexpected large value in the ext4 filesystem causes an overshift condition resulting in a divide by
zero.
CVE-2012-2100 An unexpected large value in the ext4 filesystem causes an overshift condition resulting in a divide by
zero - fix of CVE-2009-4307.
CVE-2020-8835 An overshift in a kernel allowed out of bounds reads and writes resulting in a root takeover .
CVE-2015-1607 Program is not properly handling signed bitwise left-shifts causing an overlapping memcpy memory
range error .
CVE-2016-9842 Compression function improperly executes a signed left shift of a negative integer .
CVE-2018-18445 Some kernels improperly handle right shifts of 32 bit numbers in a 64 bit register .
CVE-2013-4206 Putty has an incorrectly sized shift value resulting in an overshift.
CVE-2018-20788 LED driver overshifts under certain conditions resulting in a DoS.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Implicitly or explicitly add checks and mitigation for negative or over-shift values.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int choose\_bit(int reg\_bit, int bit\_number\_from\_elsewhere)
{
if (NEED\_TO\_SHIFT)
{
reg\_bit -= bit\_number\_from\_elsewhere;
}
return reg\_bit;
}
unsigned int handle\_io\_register(unsigned int \*r)
{
unsigned int the\_bit = 1 << choose\_bit(5, 10);
\*r |= the\_bit;
return the\_bit;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int choose\_bit(int reg\_bit, int bit\_number\_from\_elsewhere)
{
if (NEED\_TO\_SHIFT)
{
reg\_bit -= bit\_number\_from\_elsewhere;
}
return reg\_bit;
}
unsigned int handle\_io\_register(unsigned int \*r)
{
int the\_bit\_number = choose\_bit(5, 10);
if ((the\_bit\_number > 0) && (the\_bit\_number < 63))
{
unsigned int the\_bit = 1 << the\_bit\_number;
\*r |= the\_bit;
}
return the\_bit;
}3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1335.html 3/3Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-03-29
(CWE 4.5, 2021-07-20)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications