3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-921: Storage of Sensitive Data in a Mechanism without Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/921.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-921: Storage of Sensitive Data in a Mechanism without Access Control
Weakness ID: 921
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in a file system or device that does not have built-in access control.
 Extended Description
While many modern file systems or devices utilize some form of access control in order to restrict access to data, not all storage
mechanisms have this capability . For example, memory cards, floppy disks, CDs, and USB devices are typically made accessible to
any user within the system. This can become a problem when sensitive data is stored in these mechanisms in a multi-user
environment, because anybody on the system can read or write this data.
On Android devices, external storage is typically globally readable and writable by other applications on the device. External storage
may also be easily accessible through the mobile device's USB connection or physically accessible through the device's memory card
port.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 922 Insecure Storage of Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or Directories
Attackers can read sensitive information by accessing the unrestricted storage mechanism.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Files or Directories
Attackers can modify or delete sensitive information by accessing the unrestricted storage
mechanism.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-921: Storage of Sensitive Data in a Mechanism without Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/921.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-921] Android Open Source Project. "Security Tips". 2013-07-16. < https://developer .android.com/training/articles/security-
tips.html#StoringData >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-06-22
(CWE 2.5, 2013-07-17)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications