3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1313: Hardware Allows Activation of Test or Debug Logic at Runtime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1313.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1313: Hardware Allows Activation of T est or Debug Logic at Runtime
Weakness ID: 1313
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
During runtime, the hardware allows for test or debug logic (feature) to be activated, which allows for changing the state of the
hardware. This feature can alter the intended behavior of the system and allow for alteration and leakage of sensitive data by an
adversary .
 Extended Description
An adversary can take advantage of test or debug logic that is made accessible through the hardware during normal operation to
modify the intended behavior of the system. For example, an accessible Test/debug mode may allow read/write access to any system
data. Using error injection (a common test/debug feature) during a transmit/receive operation on a bus, data may be modified to
produce an unintended message. Similarly , confidentiality could be compromised by such features allowing access to secrets.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during implementation and identified later during Testing or System
Configuration phases.
IntegrationSuch issues could be introduced during integration and identified later during Testing or System
configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability; DoS: Resource
Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized
Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Alter Execution Logic; Quality
Degradation; Unexpected State; Reduce Performance; Reduce Reliability
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-33150 Hardware processor allows activation of test or debug logic at runtime.
CVE-2021-0146 Processor allows the activation of test or debug logic at runtime, allowing escalation of privilegesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1313: Hardware Allows Activation of Test or Debug Logic at Runtime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1313.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Insert restrictions on when the hardware's test or debug features can be activated. For example, during normal operating
modes, the hardware's privileged modes that allow access to such features cannot be activated. Configuring the hardware to
only enter a test or debug mode within a window of opportunity such as during boot or configuration stage. The result is
disablement of such test/debug features and associated modes during normal runtime operations.
Phase: Implementation
Insert restrictions on when the hardware's test or debug features can be activated. For example, during normal operating
modes, the hardware's privileged modes that allow access to such features cannot be activated. Configuring the hardware to
only enter a test or debug mode within a window of opportunity such as during boot or configuration stage. The result is
disablement of such test/debug features and associated modes during normal runtime operations.
Phase: Integration
Insert restrictions on when the hardware's test or debug features can be activated. For example, during normal operating
modes, the hardware's privileged modes that allow access to such features cannot be activated. Configuring the hardware to
only enter a test or debug mode within a window of opportunity such as during boot or configuration stage. The result is
disablement of such test/debug features and associated modes during normal runtime operations.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-08-06
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Brent Sherman Accellera IP Security Assurance (IPSA) W orking Group
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
contributed to observed example
 Modifications
