3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-323: Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/323.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-323: Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption
Weakness ID: 323
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Nonces should be used for the present occasion and only once.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 344 Use of Invariant V alue in Dynamically Changing Context
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 320 Key Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Nonces are often bundled with a key in a communication exchange to produce a new session key for each exchange.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Potentially a replay attack, in which an attacker could send the same data twice, could be crafted if
nonces are allowed to be reused. This could allow a user to send a message which masquerades
as a valid message from a valid user .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code takes a password, concatenates it with a nonce, then encrypts it before sending over a network:
Because the nonce used is always the same, an attacker can impersonate a trusted party by intercepting and resending the
encrypted password. This attack avoids the need to learn the unencrypted password.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void encryptAndSendPassword(char \*password){
char \*nonce = "bad";
...
char \*data = (unsigned char\*)malloc(20);
int para\_size = strlen(nonce) + strlen(password);
char \*paragraph = (char\*)malloc(para\_size);
SHA1((const unsigned char\*)paragraph,parsize,(unsigned char\*)data);
sendEncryptedData(data)
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-323: Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/323.html 2/2Example 2
This code sends a command to a remote server , using an encrypted password and nonce to prove the command is from a trusted
party:
Once again the nonce used is always the same. An attacker may be able to replay previous legitimate commands or execute new
arbitrary commands.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Refuse to reuse nonce values.
Phase: Implementation
Use techniques such as requiring incrementing, time based and/or challenge response to assure uniqueness of nonces.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Reusing a nonce, key pair in encryption
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
String command = new String("some command to execute");
MessageDigest nonce = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
nonce.update(String.valueOf("bad nonce"));
byte[] nonce = nonce.digest();
MessageDigest password = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
password.update(nonce + "secretPassword");
byte[] digest = password.digest();
sendCommand(digest, command)