3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-113: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP Request/Response S…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/113.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-113: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP
Request/Response Splitting')
Weakness ID: 113
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives data from an HTTP agent/component (e.g., web server , proxy , browser , etc.), but it does not neutralize or
incorrectly neutralizes CR and LF characters before the data is included in outgoing HTTP headers.
 Extended Description
HTTP agents or components may include a web server , load balancer , reverse proxy , web caching proxy , application firewall, web
browser , etc. Regardless of the role, they are expected to maintain coherent, consistent HTTP communication state across all
components. However , including unexpected data in an HTTP header allows an attacker to specify the entirety of the HTTP message
that is rendered by the client HTTP agent (e.g., web browser) or back-end HTTP agent (e.g., web server), whether the message is
part of a request or a response.
When an HTTP request contains unexpected CR and LF characters, the server may respond with an output stream that is interpreted
as "splitting" the stream into two dif ferent HTTP messages instead of one. CR is carriage return, also given by %0d or \r , and LF is
line feed, also given by %0a or \n.
In addition to CR and LF characters, other valid/RFC compliant special characters and unique character encodings can be utilized,
such as HT (horizontal tab, also given by %09 or \t) and SP (space, also given as + sign or %20).
These types of unvalidated and unexpected data in HTTP message headers allow an attacker to control the second "split" message
to mount attacks such as server-side request forgery , cross-site scripting, and cache poisoning attacks.
HTTP response splitting weaknesses may be present when:
1. Data enters a web application through an untrusted source, most frequently an HTTP request.
2. The data is included in an HTTP response header sent to a web user without neutralizing malicious characters that can be
interpreted as separator characters for headers.
 Alternate T erms
HTTP Request Splitting
HTTP Response Splitting
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
ChildOf 93 Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences ('CRLF Injection')
CanPrecede 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Gain Privileges or Assume IdentityAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-113: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP Request/Response S…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/113.html 2/4CR and LF characters in an HTTP header may give attackers control of the remaining headers and
body of the message that the application intends to send/receive, as well as allowing them to create
additional messages entirely under their control.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code segment reads the name of the author of a weblog entry , author , from an HTTP request and sets it in a cookie
header of an HTTP response.
Assuming a string consisting of standard alpha-numeric characters, such as "Jane Smith", is submitted in the request the HTTP
response including this cookie might take the following form:
However , because the value of the cookie is composed of unvalidated user input, the response will only maintain this form if the value
submitted for AUTHOR\_P ARAM does not contain any CR and LF characters. If an attacker submits a malicious string, such as
then the HTTP response would be split into two responses of the following form:
The second response is completely controlled by the attacker and can be constructed with any header and body content desired. The
ability to construct arbitrary HTTP responses permits a variety of resulting attacks, including:
cross-user defacement
web and browser cache poisoning
cross-site scripting
page hijacking
Example 2
An attacker can make a single request to a vulnerable server that will cause the server to create two responses, the second of which
may be misinterpreted as a response to a dif ferent request, possibly one made by another user sharing the same TCP connection
with the server .
Cross-User Defacement can be accomplished by convincing the user to submit the malicious request themselves, or remotely in
situations where the attacker and the user share a common TCP connection to the server , such as a shared proxy server .
In the best case, an attacker can leverage this ability to convince users that the application has been hacked, causing users
to lose confidence in the security of the application.
In the worst case, an attacker may provide specially crafted content designed to mimic the behavior of the application but
redirect private information, such as account numbers and passwords, back to the attacker .
Example 3
The impact of a maliciously constructed response can be magnified if it is cached, either by a web cache used by multiple users or
even the browser cache of a single user .
Cache Poisoning: if a response is cached in a shared web cache, such as those commonly found in proxy servers, then all users of
that cache will continue receive the malicious content until the cache entry is purged. Similarly , if the response is cached in the
browser of an individual user , then that user will continue to receive the malicious content until the cache entry is purged, although the
user of the local browser instance will be af fected.
Example 4(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String author = request.getParameter(AUTHOR\_PARAM);
...
Cookie cookie = new Cookie("author", author);
cookie.setMaxAge(cookieExpiration);
response.addCookie(cookie);
(result) 
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...
Set-Cookie: author=Jane Smith
...
(attack code) 
Wiley Hacker\r\nHTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\n
(result) 
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...
Set-Cookie: author=Wiley Hacker
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
...3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-113: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP Request/Response S…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/113.html 3/4Once attackers have control of the responses sent by an application, they have a choice of a variety of malicious content to provide
users.
Cross-Site Scripting: cross-site scripting is common form of attack where malicious JavaScript or other code included in a response is
executed in the user's browser .
The variety of attacks based on XSS is almost limitless, but they commonly include transmitting private data like cookies or other
session information to the attacker , redirecting the victim to web content controlled by the attacker , or performing other malicious
operations on the user's machine under the guise of the vulnerable site.
The most common and dangerous attack vector against users of a vulnerable application uses JavaScript to transmit session and
authentication information back to the attacker who can then take complete control of the victim's account.
Example 5
In addition to using a vulnerable application to send malicious content to a user , the same weakness can also be leveraged to redirect
sensitive content generated by the server to the attacker instead of the intended user .
Page Hijacking: by submitting a request that results in two responses, the intended response from the server and the response
generated by the attacker , an attacker can cause an intermediate node, such as a shared proxy server , to misdirect a response
generated by the server to the attacker instead of the intended user .
Because the request made by the attacker generates two responses, the first is interpreted as a response to the attacker's request,
while the second remains in limbo. When the user makes a legitimate request through the same TCP connection, the attacker's
request is already waiting and is interpreted as a response to the victim's request. The attacker then sends a second request to the
server , to which the proxy server responds with the server generated request intended for the victim, thereby compromising any
sensitive information in the headers or body of the response intended for the victim.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-15811 Chain: Proxy uses a substring search instead of parsing the Transfer-Encoding header ( CWE-697 ),
allowing request splitting ( CWE-113 ) and cache poisoning
CVE-2021-41084 Scala-based HTTP interface allows request splitting and response splitting through header names,
header values, status reasons, and URIs
CVE-2018-12116 Javascript-based framework allows request splitting through a path option of an HTTP request
CVE-2004-2146 Application accepts CRLF in an object ID, allowing HTTP response splitting.
CVE-2004-1656 Shopping cart allows HTTP response splitting to perform HTML injection via CRLF in a parameter for a
url
CVE-2005-2060 Bulletin board allows response splitting via CRLF in parameter .
CVE-2004-2512 Response splitting via CRLF in PHPSESSID.
CVE-2005-1951 e-commerce app allows HTTP response splitting using CRLF in object id parameters
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Construct HTTP headers very carefully , avoiding the use of non-validated input data.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. If an input does not strictly conform to specifications, reject it or transform it into something that
conforms.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-113: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences in HTTP Headers ('HTTP Request/Response S…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/113.html 4/4
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER HTTP response splitting
7 Pernicious Kingdoms HTTP Response Splitting
WASC 25 HTTP Response Splitting
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-105 HTTP Request Splitting
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
CAPEC-34 HTTP Response Splitting
CAPEC-85 AJAX Footprinting
 References
[REF-43] OW ASP. "OW ASP TOP 10". 2007-05-18. < https://github.com/owasp-top/owasp-top-2007 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 2: W eb-Server Related
Vulnerabilities (XSS, XSRF , and Response Splitting)." Page 31. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1272] Robert Auger . "HTTP Request Splitting". 2011-02-01.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-02-25
(CWE 4.9, 2022-10-13)Jonathan Leitschuh Dan Kaminsky Fellowship @ HUMAN Security
Suggested a new entry for HTTP Request Splitting, leading to scope expansion for CWE-113
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
