3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-612: Improper Authorization of Index Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/612.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-612: Improper Authorization of Index Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 612
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product creates a search index of private or sensitive documents, but it does not properly limit index access to actors who are
authorized to see the original information.
 Extended Description
Web sites and other document repositories may apply an indexing routine against a group of private documents to facilitate search. If
the index's results are available to parties who do not have access to the documents being indexed, then attackers could obtain
portions of the documents by conducting targeted searches and reading the results. The risk is especially dangerous if search results
include surrounding text that was not part of the search query . This issue can appear in search engines that are not configured (or
implemented) to ignore critical files that should remain hidden; even without permissions to download these files directly , the remote
user could read them.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1230 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Metadata
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-41918 A search application's access control rules are not properly applied to indices for data streams,
allowing for the viewing of sensitive information.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-612: Improper Authorization of Index Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/612.html 2/2Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This weakness is probably under-studied and under-reported.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 48 Insecure Indexing
 References
[REF-1050] W ASC. "Insecure Indexing". < http://projects.webappsec.org/w/page/13246937/Insecure%20Indexing >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names