3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-328: Use of Weak Hash (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/328.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-328: Use of W eak Hash
Weakness ID: 328
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an algorithm that produces a digest (output value) that does not meet security expectations for a hash function that
allows an adversary to reasonably determine the original input (preimage attack), find another input that can produce the same hash
(2nd preimage attack), or find multiple inputs that evaluate to the same hash (birthday attack).
 Extended Description
A hash function is defined as an algorithm that maps arbitrarily sized data into a fixed-sized digest (output) such that the following
properties hold:
1. The algorithm is not invertible (also called "one-way" or "not reversible")
2. The algorithm is deterministic; the same input produces the same digest every time
Building on this definition, a cryptographic hash function must also ensure that a malicious actor cannot leverage the hash function to
have a reasonable chance of success at determining any of the following:
1. the original input (preimage attack), given only the digest
2. another input that can produce the same digest (2nd preimage attack), given the original input
3. a set of two or more inputs that evaluate to the same digest (birthday attack), given the actor can arbitrarily choose the inputs
to be hashed and can do so a reasonable amount of times
What is regarded as "reasonable" varies by context and threat model, but in general, "reasonable" could cover any attack that is more
efficient than brute force (i.e., on average, attempting half of all possible combinations). Note that some attacks might be more
efficient than brute force but are still not regarded as achievable in the real world.
Any algorithm that does not meet the above conditions will generally be considered weak for general use in hashing.
In addition to algorithmic weaknesses, a hash function can be made weak by using the hash in a security context that breaks its
security guarantees. For example, using a hash function without a salt for storing passwords (that are suf ficiently short) could enable
an adversary to create a "rainbow table" [ REF-637 ] to recover the password under certain conditions; this attack works against such
hash functions as MD5, SHA-1, and SHA-2.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 326 Inadequate Encryption Strength
ChildOf 327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
ParentOf 916 Use of Password Hash With Insuf ficient Computational Ef fort
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-328: Use of Weak Hash (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/328.html 2/4
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In both of these examples, a user is logged in if their given password matches a stored password:
This code relies exclusively on a password mechanism ( CWE-309 ) using only one factor of authentication ( CWE-308 ). If an attacker
can steal or guess a user's password, they are given full access to their account. Note this code also uses SHA-1, which is a weak
hash ( CWE-328 ). It also does not use a salt ( CWE-759 ).
Example 2
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
At least one OT product used weak hashes.
Example 3
The example code below is taken from the JT AG access control mechanism of the Hack@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton SoC [ REF-
1360 ]. Access to JT AG allows users to access sensitive information in the system. Hence, access to JT AG is controlled using
cryptographic authentication of the users. In this example (see the vulnerable code source), the password checker uses HMAC-
SHA256 for authentication. It takes a 512-bit secret message from the user , hashes it using HMAC, and compares its output with the
expected output to determine the authenticity of the user .
The vulnerable code shows an incorrect implementation of the HMAC authentication where it only uses the least significant 32 bits of
the secret message for the authentication (the remaining 480 bits are hard coded as zeros). As a result, the system is susceptible to
brute-force attacks where the attacker only needs to determine 32 bits of the secret message instead of 512 bits, weakening the
cryptographic protocol.
To mitigate, remove the zero padding and use all 512 bits of the secret message for HMAC authentication [ REF-1361 ].
(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned char \*check\_passwd(char \*plaintext) {
ctext = simple\_digest("sha1",plaintext,strlen(plaintext), ... );
//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(ctext, secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String plainText = new String(plainTextIn);
MessageDigest encer = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
encer.update(plainTextIn);
byte[] digest = password.digest();
//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(digest,secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
logic [31:0] data\_d, data\_q
logic [512-1:0] pass\_data;
...
Write: begin
...
if (pass\_mode) begin
pass\_data = { {60{8'h00}}, data\_d};
state\_d = PassChk;
pass\_mode = 1'b0;
...
end
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
logic [512-1:0] data\_d, data\_q
li[51210] dt3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-328: Use of Weak Hash (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/328.html 3/4
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30320 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) uses a protocol with a cryptographically insecure hashing
algorithm for passwords.
CVE-2005-4900 SHA-1 algorithm is not collision-resistant.
CVE-2020-25685 DNS product uses a weak hash (CRC32 or SHA-1) of the query name, allowing attacker to forge
responses by computing domain names with the same hash.
CVE-2012-6707 blogging product uses MD5-based algorithm for passwords.
CVE-2019-14855 forging of certificate signatures using SHA-1 collisions.
CVE-2017-15999 mobile app for backup sends SHA-1 hash of password in cleartext.
CVE-2006-4068 Hard-coded hashed values for username and password contained in client-side script, allowing brute-
force of fline attacks.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an adaptive hash function that can be configured to change the amount of computational ef fort needed to compute the
hash, such as the number of iterations ("stretching") or the amount of memory required. Some hash functions perform salting
automatically . These functions can significantly increase the overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast
functions such as MD5. For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing overhead. Finally ,
since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique can be reconfigured to increase the workload without
forcing an entire replacement of the algorithm in use.
Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties include bcrypt [ REF-291 ], scrypt [ REF-292 ], and
PBKDF2 [ REF-293 ]. While there is active debate about which of these is the most ef fective, they are all stronger than using salts
with hash functions with very little computing overhead.
Note that using these functions can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-of-
service attacks. However , their configurability provides finer control over how much CPU and memory is used, so it could be
adjusted to suit the environment's needs.
Effectiveness: High
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 934 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A6 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 958 SFP Secondary Cluster: Broken Cryptography
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
logic [512-1:0] pass\_data;
...
Write: begin
...
if (pass\_mode) begin
pass\_data = data\_d;
state\_d = PassChk;
pass\_mode = 1'b0;
...
end
...3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-328: Use of Weak Hash (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/328.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
Since CWE 4.4, various cryptography-related entries including CWE-328 have been slated for extensive research, analysis, and
community consultation to define consistent terminology , improve relationships, and reduce overlap or duplication. As of CWE 4.6,
this work is still ongoing.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Reversible One-W ay Hash
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-461 Web Services API Signature Forgery Leveraging Hash Function Extension W eakness
CAPEC-68 Subvert Code-signing Facilities
 References
[REF-289] Alexander Sotirov et al.. "MD5 considered harmful today". < http://www .phreedom.org/research/rogue-ca/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Integrity", Page 47. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-291] Johnny Shelley . "bcrypt". < http://bcrypt.sourceforge.net/ >.
[REF-292] Colin Percival. "T arsnap - The scrypt key derivation function and encryption utility".
.
[REF-293] B. Kaliski. "RFC2898 - PKCS #5: Password-Based Cryptography Specification V ersion 2.0". 5.2 PBKDF2. 2000.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-294] Coda Hale. "How To Safely Store A Password". 2010-01-31. < https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-295] Brian Krebs. "How Companies Can Beef Up Password Security (interview with Thomas H. Ptacek)". 2012-06-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-296] Solar Designer . "Password security: past, present, future". 2012.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-297] Troy Hunt. "Our password hashing has no clothes". 2012-06-26. < https://www .troyhunt.com/our-password-hashing-
has-no-clothes/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-298] Joshbw . "Should we really use bcrypt/scrypt?". 2012-06-08.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-637] "Rainbow table". Wikipedia. 2009-03-03. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow\_table >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1243] Bruce Schneier . "Cryptanalysis of SHA-1". 2005-02-18.
. URL validated: 2021-10-25 .
[REF-1244] Dan Goodin. "At death's door for years, widely used SHA1 function is now dead". Ars Technica. 2017-02-23.
. URL
validated: 2021-10-25 .
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1360] "dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/71103971e8204de6a61afc17d3653292517d32bf/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L82 >. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
[REF-1361] "fix cwe\_1205 in dmi\_jtag.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/c4f4b832218b50c406dbf9f425d3b654117c1355/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/riscv-
dbg/src/dmi\_jtag.sv#L82 >. URL validated: 2023-07-22 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names