3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-777: Regular Expression without Anchors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/777.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-777: Regular Expression without Anchors
Weakness ID: 777
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a regular expression to perform neutralization, but the regular expression is not anchored and may allow malicious
or malformed data to slip through.
 Extended Description
When performing tasks such as validating against a set of allowed inputs (allowlist), data is examined and possibly modified to ensure
that it is well-formed and adheres to a list of safe values. If the regular expression is not anchored, malicious or malformed data may
be included before or after any string matching the regular expression. The type of malicious data that is allowed will depend on the
context of the application and which anchors are omitted from the regular expression.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 625 Permissive Regular Expression
 Background Details
Regular expressions are typically used to match a pattern of text. Anchors are used in regular expressions to specify where the
pattern should match: at the beginning, the end, or both (the whole input).
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
An unanchored regular expression in the context of an allowlist will possibly result in a protection
mechanism failure, allowing malicious or malformed data to enter trusted regions of the program.
The specific consequences will depend on what functionality the allowlist was protecting.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a web application that supports multiple languages. It selects messages for an appropriate language by using the lang
parameter .
The previous code attempts to match only alphanumeric values so that language values such as "english" and "french" are valid while
also protecting against path traversal, CWE-22 . However , the regular expression anchors are omitted, so any text containing at least
one alphanumeric character will now pass the validation step. For example, the attack string below will match the regular expression.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$dir = "/home/cwe/languages";
$lang = $\_GET['lang'];
if (preg\_match("/[A-Za-z0-9]+/", $lang)) {
include("$dir/$lang");
}
else {
echo "You shall not pass!\n";
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-777: Regular Expression without Anchors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/777.html 2/2If the attacker can inject code sequences into a file, such as the web server's HTTP request log, then the attacker may be able to
redirect the lang parameter to the log file and execute arbitrary code.
Example 2
This code uses a regular expression to validate an IP string prior to using it in a call to the "ping" command.
Since the regular expression does not have anchors ( CWE-777 ), i.e. is unbounded without ^ or $ characters, then prepending a 0 or
0x to the beginning of the IP address will still result in a matched regex pattern. Since the ping command supports octal and hex
prepended IP addresses, it will use the unexpectedly valid IP address ( CWE-1389 ). For example, "0x63.63.63.63" would be
considered equivalent to "99.63.63.63". As a result, the attacker could potentially ping systems that the attacker cannot reach directly .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30034 Chain: W eb UI for a Python RPC framework does not use regex anchors to validate user login emails
(CWE-777 ), potentially allowing bypass of OAuth ( CWE-1390 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Be sure to understand both what will be matched and what will not be matched by a regular expression. Anchoring the ends of
the expression will allow the programmer to define an allowlist strictly limited to what is matched by the text in the regular
expression. If you are using a package that only matches one line by default, ensure that you can match multi-line inputs if
necessary .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-06-30
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
(attack code) 
../../etc/passwd
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import subprocess
import re
def validate\_ip\_regex(ip: str):
ip\_validator = re.compile(r"((25[0-5]|(2[0-4]|1\d|[1-9]|)\d)\.?\b){4}")
if ip\_validator.match(ip):
return ip
else:
raise ValueError("IP address does not match valid pattern.")
def run\_ping\_regex(ip: str):
validated = validate\_ip\_regex(ip)
# The ping command treats zero-prepended IP addresses as octal
result = subprocess.call(["ping", validated])
print(result)