3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-643: Improper Neutralization of Data within XPath Expressions ('XPath Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/643.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-643: Improper Neutralization of Data within XPath Expressions ('XPath
Injection')
Weakness ID: 643
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to dynamically construct an XPath expression used to retrieve data from an XML database, but it
does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes that input. This allows an attacker to control the structure of the query .
 Extended Description
The net ef fect is that the attacker will have control over the information selected from the XML database and may use that ability to
control application flow , modify logic, retrieve unauthorized data, or bypass important checks (e.g. authentication).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 91 XML Injection (aka Blind XPath Injection)
ChildOf 943 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Data Query Logic
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
Controlling application flow (e.g. bypassing authentication).
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The attacker could read restricted XML content.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following simple XML document that stores authentication information and a snippet of Java code that uses XPath query
to retrieve authentication information:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(informative) Example Language: XML 


john
abracadabra
/home/john


cbc
1mgr8
/home/cbc

3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-643: Improper Neutralization of Data within XPath Expressions ('XPath Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/643.html 2/3The Java code used to retrieve the home directory based on the provided credentials is:
Assume that user "john" wishes to leverage XPath Injection and login without a valid password. By providing a username "john" and
password "' or ''='" the XPath expression now becomes
This lets user "john" login without a valid password, thus bypassing authentication.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use parameterized XPath queries (e.g. using XQuery). This will help ensure separation between data plane and control plane.
Phase: Implementation
Properly validate user input. Reject data where appropriate, filter where appropriate and escape where appropriate. Make sure
input that will be used in XPath queries is safe in that context.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 929 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness is similar to other weaknesses that enable injection style attacks, such as SQL injection, command injection and
LDAP injection. The main dif ference is that the target of attack here is the XML database.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 39 XPath Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command

(bad code) Example Language: Java 
XPath xpath = XPathFactory.newInstance().newXPath();
XPathExpression xlogin = xpath.compile("//users/user[login/text()='" + login.getUserName() + "' and password/text() = '" +
login.getPassword() + "']/home\_dir/text()");
Document d = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance().newDocumentBuilder().parse(new File("db.xml"));
String homedir = xlogin.evaluate(d);
(attack code) 
//users/user[login/text()='john' or ''='' and password/text() = '' or ''='']/home\_dir/text()3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-643: Improper Neutralization of Data within XPath Expressions ('XPath Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/643.html 3/3
 References
[REF-531] W eb Application Security Consortium. "XPath Injection".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 17, "XPath
Injection", Page 1070. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names