3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1332: Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1332.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1332: Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips
Weakness ID: 1332
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device is missing or incorrectly implements circuitry or sensors that detect and mitigate the skipping of security-critical CPU
instructions when they occur .
 Extended Description
The operating conditions of hardware may change in ways that cause unexpected behavior to occur , including the skipping of
security-critical CPU instructions. Generally , this can occur due to electrical disturbances or when the device operates outside of its
expected conditions.
In practice, application code may contain conditional branches that are security-sensitive (e.g., accepting or rejecting a user-provided
password). These conditional branches are typically implemented by a single conditional branch instruction in the program binary
which, if skipped, may lead to ef fectively flipping the branch condition - i.e., causing the wrong security-sensitive branch to be taken.
This af fects processes such as firmware authentication, password verification, and other security-sensitive decision points.
Attackers can use fault injection techniques to alter the operating conditions of hardware so that security-critical instructions are
skipped more frequently or more reliably than they would in a "natural" setting.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1384 Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
PeerOf 1247 Improper Protection Against V oltage and Clock Glitches
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignFailure to design appropriate countermeasures to common fault injection techniques can manifest this
weakness.
ImplementationThis weakness can arise if the hardware design incorrectly implements countermeasures to prevent
fault injection.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AuthenticationTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Alter Execution Logic; Unexpected State
Depending on the context, instruction skipping can have a broad range of consequences related to
the generic bypassing of security critical code.High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1332: Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1332.html 2/3Example 1
A smart card contains authentication credentials that are used as authorization to enter a building. The credentials are only accessible
when a correct PIN is presented to the card.
There are several ways this weakness could be fixed.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-15894 fault injection attack bypasses the verification mode, potentially allowing arbitrary code execution.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design strategies for ensuring safe failure if inputs, such as Vcc, are modified out of acceptable ranges.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design strategies for ensuring safe behavior if instructions attempt to be skipped.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify mission critical secrets that should be wiped if faulting is detected, and design a mechanism to do the deletion.
Phase: Implementation
Add redundancy by performing an operation multiple times, either in space or time, and perform majority voting. Additionally ,
make conditional instruction timing unpredictable.
Phase: Implementation
Use redundant operations or canaries to detect and respond to faults.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that fault mitigations are strong enough in practice. For example, a low power detection mechanism that takes 50 clock
cycles to trigger at lower voltages may be an insuf ficient security mechanism if the instruction counter has already progressed
with no other CPU activity occurring.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can be found using automated static analysis once a developer has indicated which code paths are critical to
protect.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Simulation / Emulation
This weakness can be found using automated dynamic analysis. Both emulation of a CPU with instruction skips, as well as R TL
simulation of a CPU IP , can indicate parts of the code that are sensitive to faults due to instruction skips.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be found using manual (static) analysis. The analyst has security objectives that are matched against the
high-level code. This method is less precise than emulation, especially if the analysis is done at the higher level language rather
than at assembly level.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Functional Areas(bad code) 
The card emits the credentials when a voltage anomaly is injected into the power line to the device at a particular time after providing an
incorrect PIN to the card, causing the internal program to accept the incorrect PIN.
(good code) 
add an internal filter or internal power supply in series with the power supply pin on the device
add sensing circuitry to reset the device if out of tolerance conditions are detected
add additional execution sensing circuits to monitor the execution order for anomalies and abort the action or reset the device
under fault conditions3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1332: Improper Handling of Faults that Lead to Instruction Skips (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1332.html 3/3Power
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1161] Josep Balasch, Benedikt Gierlichs and Ingrid V erbauwhede. "An In-depth and Black-box Characterization of the
Effects of Clock Glitches on 8-bit MCUs". 2011 W orkshop on Fault Diagnosis and Tolerance in Cryptography (IEEE). 2011-09.
.
[REF-1222] Alexandre Menu, Jean-Max Dutertre, Olivier Potin and Jean-Baptiste Rigaud. "Experimental Analysis of the
Electromagnetic Instruction Skip Fault Model". IEEE Xplore. 2020-04-30. < https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9081261 >.
[REF-1223] Niek Timmers, Albert Spruyt and Marc Witteman. "Controlling PC on ARM using Fault Injection". 2016-06-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1224] Colin O'Flynn. "Attacking USB Gear with EMFI". Circuit Cellar . 2019-05.
.
[REF-1286] Lennert W outers, Benedikt Gierlichs and Bart Preneel. "On The Susceptibility of Texas Instruments SimpleLink
Platform Microcontrollers to Non-Invasive Physical Attacks". 4.3. 2022-03-14. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2022/328.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-10-14
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Jasper van W oudenberg Riscure
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-11 Jasper van W oudenberg Riscure
Provided detection methods and feedback on demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
