3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-50: Path Equivalence: '//multiple/leading/slash' (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/50.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-50: Path Equivalence: '//multiple/leading/slash'
Weakness ID: 50
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product accepts path input in the form of multiple leading slash ('//multiple/leading/slash') without appropriate validation, which
can lead to ambiguous path resolution and allow an attacker to traverse the file system to unintended locations or access arbitrary
files.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 161 Improper Neutralization of Multiple Leading Special Elements
ChildOf 41 Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1483 Read files with full pathname using multiple internal slash.
CVE-1999-1456 Server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via a GET request with more than one leading /
(slash) character in the filename.
CVE-2004-0578 Server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via leading slash (//) characters in a URL request.
CVE-2002-0275 Server allows remote attackers to bypass authentication and read restricted files via an extra / (slash)
in the requested URL.
CVE-2004-1032 Product allows local users to delete arbitrary files or create arbitrary empty files via a target filename
with a large number of leading slash (/) characters.
CVE-2002-1238 Server allows remote attackers to bypass access restrictions for files via an HTTP request with a
sequence of multiple / (slash) characters such as http://www .example.com///file/.
CVE-2004-1878 Product allows remote attackers to bypass authentication, obtain sensitive information, or gain access
via a direct request to admin/user .pl preceded by // (double leading slash).
CVE-2005-1365 Server allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands via a URL with multiple leading "/"
(slash) characters and ".." sequences.
CVE-2000-1050 Access directory using multiple leading slash.
CVE-2001-1072 Bypass access restrictions via multiple leading slash, which causes a regular expression to fail.
CVE-2004-0235 Archive extracts to arbitrary files using multiple leading slash in filenames in the archive.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-50: Path Equivalence: '//multiple/leading/slash' (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/50.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER //multiple/leading/slash ('multiple leading slash')
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names