3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-771: Missing Reference to Active Allocated Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/771.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-771: Missing Reference to Active Allocated Resource
Weakness ID: 771
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly maintain a reference to a resource that has been allocated, which prevents the resource from being
reclaimed.
 Extended Description
This does not necessarily apply in languages or frameworks that automatically perform garbage collection, since the removal of all
references may act as a signal that the resource is ready to be reclaimed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 400 Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
ParentOf 773 Missing Reference to Active File Descriptor or Handle
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
An attacker that can influence the allocation of resources that are not properly maintained could deplete
the available resource pool and prevent all other processes from accessing the same type of resource.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Operation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Resource Limitation
Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system
resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many
resources are available. However , these functions are not available on all operating systems.
When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770 ), then limit the allocation of
further resources to privileged users; alternately , begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may
protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users.
Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable
(CWE-703 ).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-771: Missing Reference to Active Allocated Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/771.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 982 SFP Secondary Cluster: Failure to Release Resource
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding FIO42-C CWE More
AbstractClose files when they are no longer needed
CER T C Secure Coding MEM31-C CWE More
AbstractFree dynamically allocated memory when no longer
needed
Software Fault Patterns SFP14 Failure to Release Resource
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-13
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
