3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-914: Improper Control of Dynamically-Identiﬁed Variables (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/914.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-914: Improper Control of Dynamically-Identified V ariables
Weakness ID: 914
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly restrict reading from or writing to dynamically-identified variables.
 Extended Description
Many languages of fer powerful features that allow the programmer to access arbitrary variables that are specified by an input string.
While these features can of fer significant flexibility and reduce development time, they can be extremely dangerous if attackers can
modify unintended variables that have security implications.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 913 Improper Control of Dynamically-Managed Code Resources
ChildOf 99 Improper Control of Resource Identifiers ('Resource Injection')
ParentOf 621 Variable Extraction Error
ParentOf 627 Dynamic V ariable Evaluation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could modify sensitive data or program variables.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Other
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code uses the credentials sent in a POST request to login a user .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
//Log user in, and set $isAdmin to true if user is an administrator
function login($user,$pass){
$query = buildQuery($user,$pass);
mysql\_query($query);
if(getUserRole($user) == "Admin"){
$isAdmin = true;
}
}
$isAdmin = false;
extract($\_POST);
login(mysql\_real\_escape\_string($user),mysql\_real\_escape\_string($pass));3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-914: Improper Control of Dynamically-Identiﬁed Variables (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/914.html 2/2The call to extract() will overwrite the existing values of any variables defined previously , in this case $isAdmin. An attacker can send
a POST request with an unexpected third value "isAdmin" equal to "true", thus gaining Admin privileges.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-7135 extract issue enables file inclusion
CVE-2006-7079 Chain: extract used for register\_globals compatibility layer , enables path traversal ( CWE-22 )
CVE-2007-0649 extract() buried in include files makes post-disclosure analysis confusing; original report had seemed
incorrect.
CVE-2006-6661 extract() enables static code injection
CVE-2006-2828 import\_request\_variables() buried in include files makes post-disclosure analysis confusing
CVE-2009-0422 Chain: Dynamic variable evaluation allows resultant remote file inclusion and path traversal.
CVE-2007-2431 Chain: dynamic variable evaluation in PHP program used to modify critical, unexpected $\_SER VER
variable for resultant XSS.
CVE-2006-4904 Chain: dynamic variable evaluation in PHP program used to conduct remote file inclusion.
CVE-2006-4019 Dynamic variable evaluation in mail program allows reading and modifying attachments and
preferences of other users.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
For any externally-influenced input, check the input against an allowlist of internal program variables that are allowed to be
modified.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Refactoring
Refactor the code so that internal program variables do not need to be dynamically identified.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-01-26
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
