3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-159: Improper Handling of Invalid Use of Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/159.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-159: Improper Handling of Invalid Use of Special Elements
Weakness ID: 159
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly filter , remove, quote, or otherwise manage the invalid use of special elements in user-controlled input,
which could cause adverse ef fect on its behavior and integrity .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
ParentOf 166 Improper Handling of Missing Special Element
ParentOf 167 Improper Handling of Additional Special Element
ParentOf 168 Improper Handling of Inconsistent Special Elements
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1362 Crash via message type without separator character
CVE-2000-0116 Extra "<" in front of SCRIPT tag bypasses XSS prevention.
 Potential Mitigations
Developers should anticipate that special elements will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their software
system. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is
processed by the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output EncodingAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-159: Improper Handling of Invalid Use of Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/159.html 2/2While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Terminology
Precise terminology for the underlying weaknesses does not exist. Therefore, these weaknesses use the terminology associated
with the manipulation.
Research Gap
Customized languages and grammars, even those that are specific to a particular product, are potential sources of weaknesses that
are related to special elements. However , most researchers concentrate on the most commonly used representations for data
transmission, such as HTML and SQL. Any representation that is commonly used is likely to be a rich source of weaknesses;
researchers are encouraged to investigate previously unexplored representations.
Maintenance
The list of children for this entry is far from complete. However , the types of special elements might be too precise for use within
CWE.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Common Special Element Manipulations
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
