3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-188: Reliance on Data/Memory Layout (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/188.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-188: Reliance on Data/Memory Layout
Weakness ID: 188
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product makes invalid assumptions about how protocol data or memory is organized at a lower level, resulting in unintended
program behavior .
 Extended Description
When changing platforms or protocol versions, in-memory organization of data may change in unintended ways. For example, some
architectures may place local variables A and B right next to each other with A on top; some may place them next to each other with B
on top; and others may add some padding to each. The padding size may vary to ensure that each variable is aligned to a proper
word size.
In protocol implementations, it is common to calculate an of fset relative to another field to pick out a specific piece of data. Exceptional
conditions, often involving new protocol versions, may add corner cases that change the data layout in an unusual way . The result can
be that an implementation accesses an unintended field in the packet, treating data of one type as data of another type.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 435 Improper Interaction Between Multiple Correctly-Behaving Entities
ChildOf 1105 Insuf ficient Encapsulation of Machine-Dependent Functionality
ParentOf 198 Use of Incorrect Byte Ordering
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory
Can result in unintended modifications or exposure of sensitive memory .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example function, the memory address of variable b is derived by adding 1 to the address of variable a. This derived address is
then used to assign the value 0 to b.
Here, b may not be one byte past a. It may be one byte in front of a. Or , they may have three bytes between them because they are
aligned on 32-bit boundaries.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void example() {
char a;
char b;
\*(&a + 1) = 0;
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-188: Reliance on Data/Memory Layout (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/188.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
In flat address space situations, never allow computing memory addresses as of fsets from another memory address.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Fully specify protocol layout unambiguously , providing a structured grammar (e.g., a compilable yacc grammar).
Phase: T esting
Testing: Test that the implementation properly handles each case in the protocol grammar .
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Reliance on data layout
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Structure
Padding", Page 284. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
