3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-258: Empty Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/258.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-258: Empty Password in Configuration File
Weakness ID: 258
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Using an empty string as a password is insecure.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 521 Weak Password Requirements
ChildOf 260 Password in Configuration File
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but the password is provided as an empty string.
This Java example shows a properties file with an empty password string.
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database and the password is provided as an empty string.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-258: Empty Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/258.html 2/2An empty string should never be used as a password as this can allow unauthorized access to the application. Username and
password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in clear text. If possible, encrypt this information
and avoid CWE-260 and CWE-13 .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-26117 Network access control (NAC) product has a configuration file with an empty password
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Passwords should be at least eight characters long -- the longer the better . Avoid passwords that are in any way similar to other
passwords you have. Avoid using words that may be found in a dictionary , names book, on a map, etc. Consider incorporating
numbers and/or punctuation into your password. If you do use common words, consider replacing letters in that word with
numbers and punctuation. However , do not use "similar-looking" punctuation. For example, it is not a good idea to change cat to
c@t, ca+, (@+, or anything similar . Finally , it is never appropriate to use an empty string as a password.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 950 SFP Secondary Cluster: Hardcoded Sensitive Data
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Password Management: Empty Password in Configuration File
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
