3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-627: Dynamic Variable Evaluation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/627.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-627: Dynamic V ariable Evaluation
Weakness ID: 627
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
In a language where the user can influence the name of a variable at runtime, if the variable names are not controlled, an attacker can
read or write to arbitrary variables, or access arbitrary functions.
 Extended Description
The resultant vulnerabilities depend on the behavior of the application, both at the crossover point and in any control/data flow that is
reachable by the related variables or functions.
 Alternate T erms
Dynamic evaluation
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 914 Improper Control of Dynamically-Identified V ariables
PeerOf 183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs
 Background Details
Many interpreted languages support the use of a "$$varname" construct to set a variable whose name is specified by the $varname
variable. In PHP , these are referred to as "variable variables." Functions might also be invoked using similar syntax, such as
$$funcname(arg1, arg2).
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could gain unauthorized access to internal program variables and execute arbitrary
code.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-0422 Chain: Dynamic variable evaluation allows resultant remote file inclusion and path traversal.
CVE-2007-2431 Chain: dynamic variable evaluation in PHP program used to modify critical, unexpected $\_SER VER
variable for resultant XSS.
CVE-2006-4904 Chain: dynamic variable evaluation in PHP program used to conduct remote file inclusion.
CVE-2006-4019 Dynamic variable evaluation in mail program allows reading and modifying attachments and
preferences of other users.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Refactoring
Refactor the code to avoid dynamic variable evaluation whenever possible.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-627: Dynamic Variable Evaluation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/627.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Use only allowlists of acceptable variable or function names.
Phase: Implementation
For function names, ensure that you are only calling functions that accept the proper number of arguments, to avoid unexpected
null arguments.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied, probably under-reported. Few researchers look for this issue; most public reports are for PHP , although other
languages are af fected. This issue is likely to grow in PHP as developers begin to implement functionality in place of
register\_globals.
 References
[REF-517] Steve Christey . "Dynamic Evaluation V ulnerabilities in PHP applications". Full-Disclosure. 2006-05-03.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-518] Shaun Clowes. "A Study In Scarlet: Exploiting Common V ulnerabilities in PHP Applications".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
