3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1239: Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1239.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1239: Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register
Weakness ID: 1239
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The hardware product does not properly clear sensitive information from built-in registers when the user of the hardware block
changes.
 Extended Description
Hardware logic operates on data stored in registers local to the hardware block. Most hardware IPs, including cryptographic
accelerators, rely on registers to buf fer I/O, store intermediate values, and interface with software. The result of this is that sensitive
information, such as passwords or encryption keys, can exist in locations not transparent to the user of the hardware logic. When a
different entity obtains access to the IP due to a change in operating mode or conditions, the new entity can extract information
belonging to the previous user if no mechanisms are in place to clear register contents. It is important to clear information stored in
the hardware if a physical attack on the product is detected, or if the user of the hardware block changes. The process of clearing
register contents in a hardware IP is referred to as zeroization in standards for cryptographic hardware modules such as FIPS-140-2
[REF-267 ].
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 226 Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design Lack of hardware mechanisms to zeroize or clear registers in the design or specification.
Implementation Mechanisms to zeroize and clear registers are in the design but implemented incorrectly .
OperationHardware-provided zeroization mechanisms are not used appropriately by the IP user (ex. firmware), or
data remanence issues are not taken into account.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
The consequences will depend on the information disclosed due to the vulnerability .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Suppose a hardware IP for implementing an encryption routine works as expected, but it leaves the intermediate results in some
registers that can be accessed. Exactly why this access happens is immaterial - it might be unintentional or intentional, where the
designer wanted a "quick fix" for something.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1239: Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1239.html 2/3Example 2
The example code below [ REF-1379 ] is taken from the SHA256 Interface/wrapper controller module of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy
OpenPiton SoC. Within the wrapper module there are a set of 16 memory-mapped registers referenced data[0] to data[15]. These
registers are 32 bits in size and are used to store the data received on the AXI Lite interface for hashing. Once both the message to
be hashed and a request to start the hash computation are received, the values of these registers will be forwarded to the underlying
SHA256 module for processing. Once forwarded, the values in these registers no longer need to be retained. In fact, if not cleared or
overwritten, these sensitive values can be read over the AXI Lite interface, potentially compromising any previously confidential data
stored therein.
In the previous code snippet [ REF-1379 ] there is the lack of a data clearance mechanism for the memory-mapped I/O registers after
their utilization. These registers get cleared only when a reset condition is met. This condition is met when either the global negative-
edge reset input signal (rst\_ni) or the dedicated reset input signal for SHA256 peripheral (rst\_3) is active. In other words, if either of
these reset signals is true, the registers will be cleared. However , in cases where there is not a reset condition these registers retain
their values until the next hash operation. It is during the time between an old hash operation and a new hash operation that that data
is open to unauthorized disclosure.
To correct the issue of data persisting between hash operations, the memory mapped I/O registers need to be cleared once the
values written in these registers are propagated to the SHA256 module. This could be done for example by adding a new condition to
zeroize the memory mapped I/O registers once the hash value is computed, i.e., hashV alid signal asserted, as shown in the good
code example below [ REF-1380 ]. This fix will clear the memory-mapped I/O registers after the data has been provided as input to the
SHA engine.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Every register potentially containing sensitive information must have a policy specifying how and when information is cleared, in
addition to clarifying if it is the responsibility of the hardware logic or IP user to initiate the zeroization procedure at the
appropriate time.
Note: Unfortunately , data disclosure can occur even after information has been overwritten/zeroized from the digital perspective.
Physical characteristics of the memory can reveal the history of previously written data. For example, if the same value is written(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
// Implement SHA256 I/O memory map interface
// Write side
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~rst\_3))
begin
startHash <= 0;
newMessage <= 0;
data[0] <= 0;
data[1] <= 0;
data[2] <= 0;
...
data[14] <= 0;
data[15] <= 0;
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
// Implement SHA256 I/O memory map interface
// Write side
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~rst\_3))
begin
startHash <= 0;
newMessage <= 0;
data[0] <= 0;
data[1] <= 0;
data[2] <= 0;
...
data[14] <= 0;
data[15] <= 0;
end
else if(hashValid && ~hashValid\_r)
begin
data[0] <= 0;
data[1] <= 0;
data[2] <= 0;
...
data[14] <= 0;
data[15] <= 0;
end
...3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1239: Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1239.html 3/3repeatedly to a memory location, the corresponding memory cells can become physically altered to a degree that even if the
original data is erased it can still be recovered through physical characterization of the memory cells [ REF-1055 ].
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-150 Collect Data from Common Resource Locations
CAPEC-204 Lifting Sensitive Data Embedded in Cache
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1055] Peter Gutmann. "Data Remanence in Semiconductor Devices". 10th USENIX Security Symposium. 2001-08.
.
[REF-1379] "sha256\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/sha256/sha256\_wrap
per.sv#L94-L116 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
[REF-1380] "Fix for sha256\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/e8ba396b5c7cec9031e0e0e18ac547f32cd0ed50/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/sha256/sha256\_wrap
per.sv#L98C1-L139C18 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-08
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-07 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-07 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
