3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-253: Incorrect Check of Function Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/253.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-253: Incorrect Check of Function Return V alue
Weakness ID: 253
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product incorrectly checks a return value from a function, which prevents it from detecting errors or exceptional conditions.
 Extended Description
Important and common functions will return some value about the success of its actions. This will alert the program whether or not to
handle any errors caused by that function.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
An unexpected return value could place the system in a state that could lead to a crash or other
unintended behaviors.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code attempts to allocate memory for 4 integers and checks if the allocation succeeds.
The code assumes that only a negative return value would indicate an error , but malloc() may return a null pointer when there is an
error. The value of tmp could then be equal to 0, and the error would be missed.
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
tmp = malloc(sizeof(int) \* 4);
if (tmp < 0 ) {
perror("Failure");
//should have checked if the call returned 0
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-253: Incorrect Check of Function Return Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/253.html 2/2CVE-2023-49286 Chain: function in web caching proxy does not correctly check a return value ( CWE-253 ) leading to a
reachable assertion ( CWE-617 )
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language or compiler that uses exceptions and requires the catching of those exceptions.
Phase: Implementation
Properly check all functions which return a value.
Phase: Implementation
When designing any function make sure you return a value or throw an exception in case of an error .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1167 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 12. Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Misinterpreted function return value
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
CER T C Secure Coding ERR33-C Imprecise Detect and handle standard library errors
CER T C Secure Coding POS54-C Imprecise Detect and handle POSIX library errors
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Return V alue
Testing and Interpretation", Page 340. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
