3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-609: Double-Checked Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/609.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-609: Double-Checked Locking
Weakness ID: 609
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses double-checked locking to access a resource without the overhead of explicit synchronization, but the locking is
insuf ficient.
 Extended Description
Double-checked locking refers to the situation where a programmer checks to see if a resource has been initialized, grabs a lock,
checks again to see if the resource has been initialized, and then performs the initialization if it has not occurred yet. This should not
be done, as it is not guaranteed to work in all languages and on all architectures. In summary , other threads may not be operating
inside the synchronous block and are not guaranteed to see the operations execute in the same order as they would appear inside
the synchronous block.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
CanPrecede 367 Time-of-check Time-of-use (T OCT OU) Race Condition
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 411 Resource Locking Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
It may seem that the following bit of code achieves thread safety while avoiding unnecessary synchronization...
The programmer wants to guarantee that only one Helper() object is ever allocated, but does not want to pay the cost of
synchronization every time this code is called.
Suppose that helper is not initialized. Then, thread A sees that helper==null and enters the synchronized block and begins to execute:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
if (helper == null) {
synchronized (this) {
if (helper == null) {
helper = new Helper();
}
}
}
return helper;3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-609: Double-Checked Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/609.html 2/2If a second thread, thread B, takes over in the middle of this call and helper has not finished running the constructor , then thread B
may make calls on helper while its fields hold incorrect values.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
While double-checked locking can be achieved in some languages, it is inherently flawed in Java before 1.5, and cannot be
achieved without compromising platform independence. Before Java 1.5, only use of the synchronized keyword is known to
work. Beginning in Java 1.5, use of the "volatile" keyword allows double-checked locking to work successfully , although there is
some debate as to whether it achieves suf ficient performance gains. See references.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 853 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 10 - Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1143 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 09. Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)LCK10-J Do not use incorrect forms of the double-checked locking idiom
Software Fault Patterns SFP19 Missing Lock
 References
[REF-490] David Bacon et al. "The "Double-Checked Locking is Broken" Declaration".
.
[REF-491] Jeremy Manson and Brian Goetz. "JSR 133 (Java Memory Model) F AQ".
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 13, "Threading
Vulnerabilities", Page 815. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
(bad code) 
helper = new Helper();