3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1259: Improper Restriction of Security Token Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1259.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1259: Improper Restriction of Security T oken Assignment
Weakness ID: 1259
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The System-On-A-Chip (SoC) implements a Security Token mechanism to dif ferentiate what actions are allowed or disallowed when a
transaction originates from an entity . However , the Security Tokens are improperly protected.
 Extended Description
Systems-On-A-Chip (Integrated circuits and hardware engines) implement Security Tokens to dif ferentiate and identify which actions
originated from which agent. These actions may be one of the directives: 'read', 'write', 'program', 'reset', 'fetch', 'compute', etc.
Security Tokens are assigned to every agent in the System that is capable of generating an action or receiving an action from another
agent. Multiple Security Tokens may be assigned to an agent and may be unique based on the agent's trust level or allowed
privileges. Since the Security Tokens are integral for the maintenance of security in an SoC, they need to be protected properly . A
common weakness af flicting Security Tokens is improperly restricting the assignment to trusted components. Consequently , an
improperly protected Security Token may be able to be programmed by a malicious agent (i.e., the Security Token is mutable) to spoof
the action as if it originated from a trusted agent.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1294 Insecure Security Identifier Mechanism
PeerOf 1255 Comparison Logic is V ulnerable to Power Side-Channel Attacks
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Processor Hardware Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism;
Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Modify Memory; Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
For example, consider a system with a register for storing an AES key for encryption and decryption. The key is of 128 bits
implemented as a set of four 32-bit registers. The key register assets have an associated control register ,About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1259: Improper Restriction of Security Token Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1259.html 2/3AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY , which provides the necessary access controls. This access-policy register defines which agents may
engage in a transaction, and the type of transaction, with the AES-key registers. Each bit in this 32-bit register defines a security
Token. There could be a maximum of 32 security Tokens that are allowed access to the AES-key registers. The number of the bit
when set (i.e., "1") allows respective action from an agent whose identity matches the number of the bit and, if "0" (i.e., Clear),
disallows the respective action to that corresponding agent.
Let's assume the system has two agents: a Main-controller and an Aux-controller . The respective Security Tokens are "1" and "2".
Register Description Default
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1 AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2 AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY AES key access register [31:0] 0x00000002
An agent with Security Token "1" has access to AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 through AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 registers. As per the above
access policy , the AES-Key-access policy allows access to the AES-key registers if the security Token is "1".
The SoC does not properly protect the Security Token of the agents, and, hence, the Aux-controller in the above example can spoof
the transaction (i.e., send the transaction as if it is coming from the Main-controller to access the AES-Key registers)
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Security Token assignment review checks for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Security-T oken definition and programming flow is tested in both pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements. Currently it is expressed as a
general absence of a protection mechanism as opposed to a specific mistake, and the entry's name and description could be
interpreted as applying to software.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
CAPEC-681 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Hardware Security Identifiers
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-03-06
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The Aux-controller could program its Security Token to "1" from "2".
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The SoC needs to protect the Security Tokens. None of the agents in the SoC should have the ability to change the Security Token.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1259: Improper Restriction of Security Token Assignment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1259.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-10-31 MaineK00n
corrected a typo in extended description
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names