3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1045: Parent Class with a Virtual Destructor and a Child Class without a Virtual Destructor (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1045.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1045: Parent Class with a V irtual Destructor and a Child Class without a
Virtual Destructor
Weakness ID: 1045
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A parent class has a virtual destructor method, but the parent has a child class that does not have a virtual destructor .
 Extended Description
This issue can prevent the product from running reliably , since the child might not perform essential destruction operations. If the
relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this reliability problem might introduce a vulnerability , such as a memory leak ( CWE-
401).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1076 Insuf ficient Adherence to Expected Conventions
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Reliability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1045: Parent Class with a Virtual Destructor and a Child Class without a Virtual Destructor (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1045.html 2/2OMG ASCRM ASCRM-RLB-
17
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-RLB-17. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-977] QuantStart. "C++ V irtual Destructors: How to Avoid Memory Leaks". < https://www .quantstart.com/articles/C-V irtual-
Destructors-How-to-A void-Memory-Leaks/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-978] GeeksforGeeks. "V irtual Destructor". < https://www .geeksforgeeks.org/virtual-destructor/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications