3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-558: Use of getlogin() in Multithreaded Application (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/558.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-558: Use of getlogin() in Multithreaded Application
Weakness ID: 558
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the getlogin() function in a multithreaded context, potentially causing it to return incorrect values.
 Extended Description
The getlogin() function returns a pointer to a string that contains the name of the user associated with the calling process. The
function is not reentrant, meaning that if it is called from another process, the contents are not locked out and the value of the string
can be changed by another process. This makes it very risky to use because the username can be changed by other processes, so
the results of the function cannot be trusted.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 663 Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code relies on getlogin() to determine whether or not a user is trusted. It is easily subverted.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Using names for security purposes is not advised. Names are easy to forge and can have overlapping user IDs, potentially
causing confusion or impersonation.
Phase: Implementation
Use getlogin\_r() instead, which is reentrant, meaning that other processes are locked out from changing the username.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
pwd = getpwnam(getlogin());
if (isTrustedGroup(pwd->pw\_gid)) {
allow();
} else {
deny();
}3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-558: Use of getlogin() in Multithreaded Application (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/558.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Often Misused: Authentication
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
