3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-397: Declaration of Throws for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/397.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-397: Declaration of Throws for Generic Exception
Weakness ID: 397
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Throwing overly broad exceptions promotes complex error handling code that is more likely to contain security vulnerabilities.
 Extended Description
Declaring a method to throw Exception or Throwable makes it dif ficult for callers to perform proper error handling and error recovery .
Java's exception mechanism, for example, is set up to make it easy for callers to anticipate what can go wrong and write code to
handle each specific exceptional circumstance. Declaring that a method throws a generic form of exception defeats this system.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
ChildOf 703 Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 705 Incorrect Control Flow Scoping
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following method throws three types of exceptions.
While it might seem tidier to writeAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public void doExchange() throws IOException, InvocationTargetException, SQLException {
...
}
(bad code) 
public void doExchange() throws Exception {
...
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-397: Declaration of Throws for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/397.html 2/3doing so hampers the caller's ability to understand and handle the exceptions that occur . Further , if a later revision of doExchange()
introduces a new type of exception that should be treated dif ferently than previous exceptions, there is no easy way to enforce this
requirement.
Example 2
Early versions of C++ (C++98, C++03, C++11) included a feature known as Dynamic Exception Specification. This allowed functions
to declare what type of exceptions it may throw . It is possible to declare a general class of exception to cover any derived exceptions
that may be throw .
In the example above, the code declares that myfunction() can throw an exception of type "std::exception" thus hiding details about
the possible derived exceptions that could potentially be thrown.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 388 7PK - Errors
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 960 SFP Secondary Cluster: Ambiguous Exception Type
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1141 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 07. Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
For C++, this weakness only applies to C++98, C++03, and C++11. It relies on a feature known as Dynamic Exception Specification,
which was part of early versions of C++ but was deprecated in C++11. It has been removed for C++17 and later .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Overly-Broad Throws Declaration
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR07-J Do not throw RuntimeException, Exception, or Throwable
Software Fault Patterns SFP5 Ambiguous Exception Type
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-397
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-
CWE-397
 References
(bad code) 
int myfunction() throw(std::exception) {
if (0) throw out\_of\_range();
throw length\_error();
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-397: Declaration of Throws for Generic Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/397.html 3/3[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-CWE-397.
2016-01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-397. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names