3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-451: User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/451.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-451: User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information
Weakness ID: 451
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The user interface (UI) does not properly represent critical information to the user , allowing the information - or its source - to be
obscured or spoofed. This is often a component in phishing attacks.
 Extended Description
If an attacker can cause the UI to display erroneous data, or to otherwise convince the user to display information that appears to
come from a trusted source, then the attacker could trick the user into performing the wrong action. This is often a component in
phishing attacks, but other kinds of problems exist. For example, if the UI is used to monitor the security state of a system or network,
then omitting or obscuring an important indicator could prevent the user from detecting and reacting to a security-critical event.
UI misrepresentation can take many forms:
Incorrect indicator: incorrect information is displayed, which prevents the user from understanding the true state of the
product or the environment the product is monitoring, especially of potentially-dangerous conditions or operations. This can
be broken down into several dif ferent subtypes.
Overlay: an area of the display is intended to give critical information, but another process can modify the display by
overlaying another element on top of it. The user is not interacting with the expected portion of the user interface. This is the
problem that enables clickjacking attacks, although many other types of attacks exist that involve overlay .
Icon manipulation: the wrong icon, or the wrong color indicator , can be influenced (such as making a dangerous .EXE
executable look like a harmless .GIF)
Timing: the product is performing a state transition or context switch that is presented to the user with an indicator , but a race
condition can cause the wrong indicator to be used before the product has fully switched context. The race window could be
extended indefinitely if the attacker can trigger an error .
Visual truncation: important information could be truncated from the display , such as a long filename with a dangerous
extension that is not displayed in the GUI because the malicious portion is truncated. The use of excessive whitespace can
also cause truncation, or place the potentially-dangerous indicator outside of the user's field of view (e.g. "filename.txt .exe").
A different type of truncation can occur when a portion of the information is removed due to reasons other than length, such
as the accidental insertion of an end-of-input marker in the middle of an input, such as a NUL byte in a C-style string.
Visual distinction: visual information might be presented in a way that makes it dif ficult for the user to quickly and correctly
distinguish between critical and unimportant segments of the display .
Homographs: letters from dif ferent character sets, fonts, or languages can appear very similar (i.e. may be visually
equivalent) in a way that causes the human user to misread the text (for example, to conduct phishing attacks to trick a user
into visiting a malicious web site with a visually-similar name as a trusted site). This can be regarded as a type of visual
distinction issue.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
ChildOf 684 Incorrect Provision of Specified Functionality
ParentOf 1007 Insuf ficient V isual Distinction of Homoglyphs Presented to User
ParentOf 1021 Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames
PeerOf 346 Origin V alidation Error
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-451: User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/451.html 2/3
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-2227 Web browser's filename selection dialog only shows the beginning portion of long filenames, which can
trick users into launching executables with dangerous extensions.
CVE-2001-0398 Attachment with many spaces in filename bypasses "dangerous content" warning and uses dif ferent
icon. Likely resultant.
CVE-2001-0643 Misrepresentation and equivalence issue.
CVE-2005-0593 Lock spoofing from several dif ferent weaknesses.
CVE-2004-1104 Incorrect indicator: web browser can be tricked into presenting the wrong URL
CVE-2005-0143 Incorrect indicator: Lock icon displayed when an insecure page loads a binary file loaded from a trusted
site.
CVE-2005-0144 Incorrect indicator: Secure "lock" icon is presented for one channel, while an insecure page is being
simultaneously loaded in another channel.
CVE-2004-0761 Incorrect indicator: Certain redirect sequences cause security lock icon to appear in web browser , even
when page is not encrypted.
CVE-2004-2219 Incorrect indicator: Spoofing via multi-step attack that causes incorrect information to be displayed in
browser address bar .
CVE-2004-0537 Overlay: Wide "favorites" icon can overlay and obscure address bar
CVE-2005-2271 Visual distinction: W eb browsers do not clearly associate a Javascript dialog box with the web page
that generated it, allowing spoof of the source of the dialog. "origin validation error" of a sort?
CVE-2005-2272 Visual distinction: W eb browsers do not clearly associate a Javascript dialog box with the web page
that generated it, allowing spoof of the source of the dialog. "origin validation error" of a sort?
CVE-2005-2273 Visual distinction: W eb browsers do not clearly associate a Javascript dialog box with the web page
that generated it, allowing spoof of the source of the dialog. "origin validation error" of a sort?
CVE-2005-2274 Visual distinction: W eb browsers do not clearly associate a Javascript dialog box with the web page
that generated it, allowing spoof of the source of the dialog. "origin validation error" of a sort?
CVE-2001-1410 Visual distinction: Browser allows attackers to create chromeless windows and spoof victim's display
using unprotected Javascript method.
CVE-2002-0197 Visual distinction: Chat client allows remote attackers to spoof encrypted, trusted messages with lines
that begin with a special sequence, which makes the message appear legitimate.
CVE-2005-0831 Visual distinction: Product allows spoofing names of other users by registering with a username
containing hex-encoded characters.
CVE-2003-1025 Visual truncation: Special character in URL causes web browser to truncate the user portion of the
"user@domain" URL, hiding real domain in the address bar .
CVE-2005-0243 Visual truncation: Chat client does not display long filenames in file dialog boxes, allowing dangerous
extensions via manipulations including (1) many spaces and (2) multiple file extensions.
CVE-2005-1575 Visual truncation: W eb browser file download type can be hidden using whitespace.
CVE-2004-2530 Visual truncation: V isual truncation in chat client using whitespace to hide dangerous file extension.
CVE-2005-0590 Visual truncation: Dialog box in web browser allows user to spoof the hostname via a long "user:pass"
sequence in the URL, which appears before the real hostname.
CVE-2004-1451 Visual truncation: Null character in URL prevents entire URL from being displayed in web browser .
CVE-2004-2258 Miscellaneous -- [step-based attack, GUI] -- Password-protected tab can be bypassed by switching to
another tab, then back to original tab.
CVE-2005-1678 Miscellaneous -- Dangerous file extensions not displayed.
CVE-2002-0722 Miscellaneous -- W eb browser allows remote attackers to misrepresent the source of a file in the File
Download dialog box.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Perform data validation (e.g. syntax, length, etc.) before interpreting the data.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Output Encoding
Create a strategy for presenting information, and plan for how to display unusual characters.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 995 SFP Secondary Cluster: Feature
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1379 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Human factors in ICS environments
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-451: User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/451.html 3/3MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Research Gap
Misrepresentation problems are frequently studied in web browsers, but there are no known ef forts for classifying these kinds of
problems in terms of the shortcomings of the interface. In addition, many misrepresentation issues are resultant.
Maintenance
This entry should be broken down into more precise entries. See extended description.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER UI Misrepresentation of Critical Information
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-154 Resource Location Spoofing
CAPEC-163 Spear Phishing
CAPEC-164 Mobile Phishing
CAPEC-173 Action Spoofing
CAPEC-98 Phishing
 References
[REF-434] David Wheeler . "Secure Programming for Linux and Unix HOWT O". 7.16. Foil Semantic Attacks. 2003-03-03.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
