3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-364: Signal Handler Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/364.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-364: Signal Handler Race Condition
Weakness ID: 364
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a signal handler that introduces a race condition.
 Extended Description
Race conditions frequently occur in signal handlers, since signal handlers support asynchronous actions. These race conditions have
a variety of root causes and symptoms. Attackers may be able to exploit a signal handler race condition to cause the product state to
be corrupted, possibly leading to a denial of service or even code execution.
These issues occur when non-reentrant functions, or state-sensitive actions occur in the signal handler , where they may be called at
any time. These behaviors can violate assumptions being made by the "regular" code that is interrupted, or by other signal handlers
that may also be invoked. If these functions are called at an inopportune moment - such as while a non-reentrant function is already
running - memory corruption could occur that may be exploitable for code execution. Another signal race condition commonly found
occurs when free is called within a signal handler , resulting in a double free and therefore a write-what-where condition. Even if a
given pointer is set to NULL after it has been freed, a race condition still exists between the time the memory was freed and the
pointer was set to NULL. This is especially problematic if the same signal handler has been set for more than one signal -- since it
means that the signal handler itself may be reentered.
There are several known behaviors related to signal handlers that have received the label of "signal handler race condition":
Shared state (e.g. global data or static variables) that are accessible to both a signal handler and "regular" code
Shared state between a signal handler and other signal handlers
Use of non-reentrant functionality within a signal handler - which generally implies that shared state is being used. For
example, malloc() and free() are non-reentrant because they may use global or static data structures for managing memory ,
and they are indirectly used by innocent-seeming functions such as syslog(); these functions could be exploited for memory
corruption and, possibly , code execution.
Association of the same signal handler function with multiple signals - which might imply shared state, since the same code
and resources are accessed. For example, this can be a source of double-free and use-after-free weaknesses.
Use of setjmp and longjmp, or other mechanisms that prevent a signal handler from returning control back to the original
functionality
While not technically a race condition, some signal handlers are designed to be called at most once, and being called more
than once can introduce security problems, even when there are not any concurrent calls to the signal handler . This can be a
source of double-free and use-after-free weaknesses.
Signal handler vulnerabilities are often classified based on the absence of a specific protection mechanism, although this style of
classification is discouraged in CWE because programmers often have a choice of several dif ferent mechanisms for addressing the
weakness. Such protection mechanisms may preserve exclusivity of access to the shared resource, and behavioral atomicity for the
relevant code:
Avoiding shared state
Using synchronization in the signal handler
Using synchronization in the regular code
Disabling or masking other signals, which provides atomicity (which ef fectively ensures exclusivity)
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
ParentOf 432 Dangerous Signal Handler not Disabled During Sensitive Operations
ParentOf 828 Signal Handler with Functionality that is not Asynchronous-Safe
ParentOf 831 Signal Handler Function Associated with Multiple Signals
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
CanPrecede 415 Double Free
CanPrecede 416 Use After Free
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 387 Signal ErrorsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-364: Signal Handler Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/364.html 2/4MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands
It may be possible to cause data corruption and possibly execute arbitrary code by modifying global
variables or data structures at unexpected times, violating the assumptions of code that uses this
global data.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If a signal handler interrupts code that is executing with privileges, it may be possible that the signal
handler will also be executed with elevated privileges, possibly making subsequent exploits more
severe.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code registers the same signal handler function with two dif ferent signals ( CWE-831 ). If those signals are sent to the process, the
handler creates a log message (specified in the first argument to the program) and exits.
The handler function uses global state (globalV ar and logMessage), and it can be called by both the SIGHUP and SIGTERM signals.
An attack scenario might follow these lines:
The program begins execution, initializes logMessage, and registers the signal handlers for SIGHUP and SIGTERM.
The program begins its "normal" functionality , which is simplified as sleep(), but could be any functionality that consumes
some time.
The attacker sends SIGHUP , which invokes handler (call this "SIGHUP-handler").
SIGHUP-handler begins to execute, calling syslog().
syslog() calls malloc(), which is non-reentrant. malloc() begins to modify metadata to manage the heap.
The attacker then sends SIGTERM.
SIGHUP-handler is interrupted, but syslog's malloc call is still executing and has not finished modifying its metadata.
The SIGTERM handler is invoked.
SIGTERM-handler records the log message using syslog(), then frees the logMessage variable.
At this point, the state of the heap is uncertain, because malloc is still modifying the metadata for the heap; the metadata might be in
an inconsistent state. The SIGTERM-handler call to free() is assuming that the metadata is inconsistent, possibly causing it to write
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*logMessage;
void handler (int sigNum) {
syslog(LOG\_NOTICE, "%s\n", logMessage);
free(logMessage);
/\* artificially increase the size of the timing window to make demonstration of this weakness easier. \*/
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
int main (int argc, char\* argv[]) {
logMessage = strdup(argv[1]);
/\* Register signal handlers. \*/
signal(SIGHUP, handler);
signal(SIGTERM, handler);
/\* artificially increase the size of the timing window to make demonstration of this weakness easier. \*/
sleep(10);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-364: Signal Handler Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/364.html 3/4data to the wrong location while managing the heap. The result is memory corruption, which could lead to a crash or even code
execution, depending on the circumstances under which the code is running.
Note that this is an adaptation of a classic example as originally presented by Michal Zalewski [ REF-360 ]; the original example was
shown to be exploitable for code execution.
Also note that the strdup(argv[1]) call contains a potential buf fer over-read ( CWE-126 ) if the program is called without any arguments,
because argc would be 0, and argv[1] would point outside the bounds of the array .
Example 2
The following code registers a signal handler with multiple signals in order to log when a specific event occurs and to free associated
memory before exiting.
However , the following sequence of events may result in a double-free ( CWE-415 ):
1. a SIGHUP is delivered to the process
2. sh() is invoked to process the SIGHUP
3. This first invocation of sh() reaches the point where global1 is freed
4. At this point, a SIGTERM is sent to the process
5. the second invocation of sh() might do another free of global1
6. this results in a double-free ( CWE-415 )
This is just one possible exploitation of the above code. As another example, the syslog call may use malloc calls which are not
async-signal safe. This could cause corruption of the heap management structures. For more details, consult the example within
"Delivering Signals for Fun and Profit" [ REF-360 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-0035 Signal handler does not disable other signal handlers, allowing it to be interrupted, causing other
functionality to access files/etc. with raised privileges
CVE-2001-0905 Attacker can send a signal while another signal handler is already running, leading to crash or
execution with root privileges
CVE-2001-1349 unsafe calls to library functions from signal handler
CVE-2004-0794 SIGURG can be used to remotely interrupt signal handler; other variants exist
CVE-2004-2259 SIGCHLD signal to FTP server can cause crash under heavy load while executing non-reentrant
functions like malloc/free.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design signal handlers to only set flags, rather than perform complex functionality . These flags can then be checked and acted
upon within the main program loop.
Phase: Implementation(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
#include 
#include 
void \*global1, \*global2;
char \*what;
void sh (int dummy) {
syslog(LOG\_NOTICE,"%s\n",what);
free(global2);
free(global1);
/\* Sleep statements added to expand timing window for race condition \*/
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
int main (int argc,char\* argv[]) {
what=argv[1];
global1=strdup(argv[2]);
global2=malloc(340);
signal(SIGHUP,sh);
signal(SIGTERM,sh);
/\* Sleep statements added to expand timing window for race condition \*/
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-364: Signal Handler Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/364.html 4/4Only use reentrant functions within signal handlers. Also, use validation to ensure that state is consistent while performing
asynchronous actions that af fect the state of execution.
 Functional Areas
Signals
Interprocess Communication
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 361 7PK - Time and State
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Signal handler race condition
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Signal Handling Race Conditions
CLASP Race condition in signal handler
Software Fault Patterns SFP19 Missing Lock
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-360] Michal Zalewski. "Delivering Signals for Fun and Profit". < https://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/signals.txt >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-361] "Race Condition: Signal Handling". < https://vulncat.fortify .com/en/detail?
id=desc.structural.cpp.race\_condition\_signal\_handling#:~:text=Signal%20handling%20race%20conditions%20can,installed%20to
%20handle%20multiple%20signals.s >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 13, "Signal
Vulnerabilities", Page 791. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
