3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-243: Creation of chroot Jail Without Changing Working Directory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/243.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-243: Creation of chroot Jail W ithout Changing W orking Directory
Weakness ID: 243
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses the chroot() system call to create a jail, but does not change the working directory afterward. This does not prevent
access to files outside of the jail.
 Extended Description
Improper use of chroot() may allow attackers to escape from the chroot jail. The chroot() function call does not change the process's
current working directory , so relative paths may still refer to file system resources outside of the chroot jail after chroot() has been
called.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
The chroot() system call allows a process to change its perception of the root directory of the file system. After properly invoking
chroot(), a process cannot access any files outside the directory tree defined by the new root directory . Such an environment is called
a chroot jail and is commonly used to prevent the possibility that a processes could be subverted and used to access unauthorized
files. For instance, many FTP servers run in chroot jails to prevent an attacker who discovers a new vulnerability in the server from
being able to download the password file or other sensitive files on the system.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Unix (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following source code from a (hypothetical) FTP server:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-243: Creation of chroot Jail Without Changing Working Directory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/243.html 2/3This code is responsible for reading a filename from the network, opening the corresponding file on the local machine, and sending
the contents over the network. This code could be used to implement the FTP GET command. The FTP server calls chroot() in its
initialization routines in an attempt to prevent access to files outside of /var/ftproot. But because the server does not change the
current working directory by calling chdir("/"), an attacker could request the file "../../../../../etc/passwd" and obtain a copy of the system
password file.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 979 SFP Secondary Cluster: Failed Chroot Jail
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Directory Restriction
Software Fault Patterns SFP17 Failed chroot jail
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
chroot("/var/ftproot");
...
fgets(filename, sizeof(filename), network);
localfile = fopen(filename, "r");
while ((len = fread(buf, 1, sizeof(buf), localfile)) != EOF) {
fwrite(buf, 1, sizeof(buf), network);
}
fclose(localfile);3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-243: Creation of chroot Jail Without Changing Working Directory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/243.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names