3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-138: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/138.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-138: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
Weakness ID: 138
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that
could be interpreted as control elements or syntactic markers when they are sent to a downstream component.
 Extended Description
Most languages and protocols have their own special elements such as characters and reserved words. These special elements can
carry control implications. If product does not prevent external control or influence over the inclusion of such special elements, the
control flow of the program may be altered from what was intended. For example, both Unix and Windows interpret the symbol <
("less than") as meaning "read input from a file".
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
ParentOf 140 Improper Neutralization of Delimiters
ParentOf 147 Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators
ParentOf 148 Improper Neutralization of Input Leaders
ParentOf 149 Improper Neutralization of Quoting Syntax
ParentOf 150 Improper Neutralization of Escape, Meta, or Control Sequences
ParentOf 151 Improper Neutralization of Comment Delimiters
ParentOf 152 Improper Neutralization of Macro Symbols
ParentOf 153 Improper Neutralization of Substitution Characters
ParentOf 154 Improper Neutralization of V ariable Name Delimiters
ParentOf 155 Improper Neutralization of Wildcards or Matching Symbols
ParentOf 156 Improper Neutralization of Whitespace
ParentOf 157 Failure to Sanitize Paired Delimiters
ParentOf 158 Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character
ParentOf 159 Improper Handling of Invalid Use of Special Elements
ParentOf 160 Improper Neutralization of Leading Special Elements
ParentOf 162 Improper Neutralization of Trailing Special Elements
ParentOf 164 Improper Neutralization of Internal Special Elements
ParentOf 464 Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
ParentOf 790 Improper Filtering of Special Elements
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Alter Execution Logic; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-138: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/138.html 2/3CVE-2001-0677 Read arbitrary files from mail client by providing a special MIME header that is internally used to store
pathnames for attachments.
CVE-2000-0703 Setuid program does not cleanse special escape sequence before sending data to a mail program,
causing the mail program to process those sequences.
CVE-2003-0020 Multi-channel issue. Terminal escape sequences not filtered from log files.
CVE-2003-0083 Multi-channel issue. Terminal escape sequences not filtered from log files.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Developers should anticipate that special elements (e.g. delimiters, symbols) will be injected into input vectors of their product.
One defense is to create an allowlist (e.g. a regular expression) that defines valid input according to the requirements
specifications. Strictly filter any input that does not match against the allowlist. Properly encode your output, and quote any
elements that have special meaning to the component with which you are communicating.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Use and specify an appropriate output encoding to ensure that the special elements are well-defined. A normal byte sequence in
one encoding could be a special element in another .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar). It might have lower-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-138: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/138.html 3/3Relationship
This weakness can be related to interpretation conflicts or interaction errors in intermediaries (such as proxies or application
firewalls) when the intermediary's model of an endpoint does not account for protocol-specific special elements.
Relationship
See this entry's children for dif ferent types of special elements that have been observed at one point or another . However , it can be
difficult to find suitable CVE examples. In an attempt to be complete, CWE includes some types that do not have any associated
observed example.
Research Gap
This weakness is probably under-studied for proprietary or custom formats. It is likely that these issues are fairly common in
applications that use their own custom format for configuration files, logs, meta-data, messaging, etc. They would only be found by
accident or with a focused ef fort based on an understanding of the format.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Special Elements (Characters or Reserved W ords)
PLOVER Custom Special Character Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-105 HTTP Request Splitting
CAPEC-15 Command Delimiters
CAPEC-34 HTTP Response Splitting
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names