3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 1/8
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buffer Size
Weakness ID: 131
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not correctly calculate the size to be used when allocating a buf fer, which could lead to a buf fer overflow .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
ParentOf 467 Use of sizeof() on a Pointer Type
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Memory; Modify Memory
If the incorrect calculation is used in the context of memory allocation, then the software may create
a buf fer that is smaller or larger than expected. If the allocated buf fer is smaller than expected, this
could lead to an out-of-bounds read or write ( CWE-119 ), possibly causing a crash, allowing arbitrary
code execution, or exposing sensitive data.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code allocates memory for a maximum number of widgets. It then gets a user-specified number of widgets, making sure
that the user does not request too many . It then initializes the elements of the array using InitializeWidget(). Because the number of
widgets can vary for each request, the code inserts a NULL pointer to signify the location of the last widget.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int i;
unsigned int numWidgets;
Widget \*\*WidgetList;
numWidgets = GetUntrustedSizeValue();
if ((numWidgets == 0) || (numWidgets > MAX\_NUM\_WIDGETS)) {
ExitError("Incorrect number of widgets requested!");
}3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 2/8However , this code contains an of f-by-one calculation error ( CWE-193 ). It allocates exactly enough space to contain the specified
number of widgets, but it does not include the space for the NULL pointer . As a result, the allocated buf fer is smaller than it is
supposed to be ( CWE-131 ). So if the user ever requests MAX\_NUM\_WIDGETS, there is an out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 ) when the
NULL is assigned. Depending on the environment and compilation settings, this could cause memory corruption.
Example 2
The following image processing code allocates a table for images.
This code intends to allocate a table of size num\_imgs, however as num\_imgs grows large, the calculation determining the size of the
list will eventually overflow ( CWE-190 ). This will result in a very small list to be allocated instead. If the subsequent code operates on
the list as if it were num\_imgs long, it may result in many types of out-of-bounds problems ( CWE-119 ).
Example 3
This example applies an encoding procedure to an input string and stores it into a buf fer.
The programmer attempts to encode the ampersand character in the user-controlled string, however the length of the string is
validated before the encoding procedure is applied. Furthermore, the programmer assumes encoding expansion will only expand a
given character by a factor of 4, while the encoding of the ampersand expands by 5. As a result, when the encoding procedure
expands the string it is possible to overflow the destination buf fer if the attacker provides a string of many ampersands.
Example 4
The following code is intended to read an incoming packet from a socket and extract one or more headers.}
WidgetList = (Widget \*\*)malloc(numWidgets \* sizeof(Widget \*));
printf("WidgetList ptr=%p\n", WidgetList);
for(i=0; iheaders;
if (numHeaders > 100) {
ExitError("too many headers!");
}3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 3/8The code performs a check to make sure that the packet does not contain too many headers. However , numHeaders is defined as a
signed int, so it could be negative. If the incoming packet specifies a value such as -3, then the malloc calculation will generate a
negative number (say , -300 if each header can be a maximum of 100 bytes). When this result is provided to malloc(), it is first
converted to a size\_t type. This conversion then produces a large value such as 4294966996, which may cause malloc() to fail or to
allocate an extremely large amount of memory ( CWE-195 ). With the appropriate negative numbers, an attacker could trick malloc()
into using a very small positive number , which then allocates a buf fer that is much smaller than expected, potentially leading to a
buffer overflow .
Example 5
The following code attempts to save three dif ferent identification numbers into an array . The array is allocated from memory using a
call to malloc().
The problem with the code above is the value of the size parameter used during the malloc() call. It uses a value of '3' which by
definition results in a buf fer of three bytes to be created. However the intention was to create a buf fer that holds three ints, and in C,
each int requires 4 bytes worth of memory , so an array of 12 bytes is needed, 4 bytes for each int. Executing the above code could
result in a buf fer overflow as 12 bytes of data is being saved into 3 bytes worth of allocated space. The overflow would occur during
the assignment of id\_sequence[0] and would continue with the assignment of id\_sequence[1] and id\_sequence[2].
The malloc() call could have used '3\*sizeof(int)' as the value for the size parameter in order to allocate the correct amount of space
required to store the three ints.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-17087 Chain: integer truncation ( CWE-197 ) causes small buf fer allocation ( CWE-131 ) leading to out-of-
bounds write ( CWE-787 ) in kernel pool, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2004-1363 substitution overflow: buf fer overflow using environment variables that are expanded after the length
check is performed
CVE-2004-0747 substitution overflow: buf fer overflow using expansion of environment variables
CVE-2005-2103 substitution overflow: buf fer overflow using a large number of substitution strings
CVE-2005-3120 transformation overflow: product adds extra escape characters to incoming data, but does not account
for them in the buf fer length
CVE-2003-0899 transformation overflow: buf fer overflow when expanding ">" to ">", etc.
CVE-2001-0334 expansion overflow: buf fer overflow using wildcards
CVE-2001-0248 expansion overflow: long pathname + glob = overflow
CVE-2001-0249 expansion overflow: long pathname + glob = overflow
CVE-2002-0184 special characters in argument are not properly expanded
CVE-2004-0434 small length value leads to heap overflow
CVE-2002-1347 multiple variants
CVE-2005-0490 needs closer investigation, but probably expansion-based
CVE-2004-0940 needs closer investigation, but probably expansion-based
CVE-2008-0599 Chain: Language interpreter calculates wrong buf fer size ( CWE-131 ) by using "size = ptr ? X : Y"
instead of "size = (ptr ? X : Y)" expression.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
When allocating a buf fer for the purpose of transforming, converting, or encoding an input, allocate enough memory to handle
the largest possible encoding. For example, in a routine that converts "&" characters to "&" for HTML entity encoding, the
output buf fer needs to be at least 5 times as large as the input buf fer.
Phase: Implementation
Understand the programming language's underlying representation and how it interacts with numeric calculation ( CWE-681 ).
Pay close attention to byte size discrepancies, precision, signed/unsigned distinctions, truncation, conversion and casting
between types, "not-a-number" calculations, and how the language handles numbers that are too large or too small for its
underlying representation. [ REF-7 ]}
headers = malloc(numHeaders \* sizeof(PacketHeader);
ParsePacketHeaders(packet, headers);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int \*id\_sequence;
/\* Allocate space for an array of three ids. \*/
id\_sequence = (int\*) malloc(3);
if (id\_sequence == NULL) exit(1);
/\* Populate the id array. \*/
id\_sequence[0] = 13579;
id\_sequence[1] = 24680;
id\_sequence[2] = 97531;3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 4/8Also be careful to account for 32-bit, 64-bit, and other potential dif ferences that may af fect the numeric representation.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Perform input validation on any numeric input by ensuring that it is within the expected range. Enforce that the input meets both
the minimum and maximum requirements for the expected range.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
When processing structured incoming data containing a size field followed by raw data, identify and resolve any inconsistencies
between the size field and the actual size of the data ( CWE-130 ).
Phase: Implementation
When allocating memory that uses sentinels to mark the end of a data structure - such as NUL bytes in strings - make sure you
also include the sentinel in your calculation of the total amount of memory that must be allocated.
Phase: Implementation
Replace unbounded copy functions with analogous functions that support length arguments, such as strcpy with strncpy . Create
these if they are not available.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: This approach is still susceptible to calculation errors, including issues such as of f-by-one errors ( CWE-193 ) and incorrectly
calculating buf fer lengths ( CWE-131 ). Additionally , this only addresses potential overflow issues. Resource consumption /
exhaustion issues are still possible.
Phase: Implementation
Use sizeof() on the appropriate data type to avoid CWE-467 .
Phase: Implementation
Use the appropriate type for the desired action. For example, in C/C++, only use unsigned types for values that could never be
negative, such as height, width, or other numbers related to quantity . This will simplify validation and will reduce surprises
related to unexpected casting.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Use libraries or frameworks that make it easier to handle numbers without unexpected consequences, or buf fer allocation
routines that automatically track buf fer size.
Examples include safe integer handling packages such as SafeInt (C++) or IntegerLib (C or C++). [ REF-106 ]
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 5/8Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Examine compiler warnings closely and eliminate problems with potential security implications, such as signed / unsigned
mismatch in memory operations, or use of uninitialized variables. Even if the weakness is rarely exploitable, a single failure may
lead to the compromise of the entire system.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting potential errors in buf fer
calculations. This can make it dif ficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an
analysis tool might report buf fer overflows that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run
with setuid or other special privileges.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Detection techniques for buf fer-related errors are more mature than for most other weakness types.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Without visibility into the code, black box methods may not be able to suf ficiently distinguish this weakness from others,
requiring follow-up manual methods to diagnose the underlying problem.
Manual Analysis
Manual analysis can be useful for finding this weakness, but it might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints. This becomes dif ficult for weaknesses that must be considered for all inputs, since the attack surface can be too
large.
Manual Analysis3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 6/8This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of allocation calculations. This can be useful for
detecting overflow conditions ( CWE-190 ) or similar weaknesses that might have serious security impacts on the program.
Effectiveness: High
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source Code Quality Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 974 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Buf fer Length Computation
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 7/8
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This is a broad category . Some examples include:
simple math errors,
incorrectly updating parallel counters,
not accounting for size dif ferences when "transforming" one input to another format (e.g. URL canonicalization or other
transformation that can generate a result that's larger than the original input, i.e. "expansion").
This level of detail is rarely available in public reports, so it is dif ficult to find good examples.
Maintenance
This weakness may be a composite or a chain. It also may contain layering or perspective dif ferences.
This issue may be associated with many dif ferent types of incorrect calculations ( CWE-682 ), although the integer overflow ( CWE-
190) is probably the most prevalent. This can be primary to resource consumption problems ( CWE-400 ), including uncontrolled
memory allocation ( CWE-789 ). However , its relationship with out-of-bounds buf fer access ( CWE-119 ) must also be considered.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Other length calculation error
CER T C Secure Coding INT30-C Imprecise Ensure that unsigned integer operations do not wrap
CER T C Secure Coding MEM35-C CWE More Abstract Allocate suf ficient memory for an object
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-100 Overflow Buf fers
CAPEC-47 Buffer Overflow via Parameter Expansion
 References
[REF-106] David LeBlanc and Niels Dekker . "SafeInt". < http://safeint.codeplex.com/ >.
[REF-107] Jason Lam. "T op 25 Series - Rank 18 - Incorrect Calculation of Buf fer Size". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-
03-19. < http://software-security .sans.org/blog/2010/03/19/top-25-series-rank-18-incorrect-calculation-of-buf fer-size >.
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 20, "Integer Overflows" Page 620. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "Incrementing
Pointers Incorrectly", Page 401. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-131: Incorrect Calculation of Buﬀer Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/131.html 8/8Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names