3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-344: Use of Invariant Value in Dynamically Changing Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/344.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-344: Use of Invariant V alue in Dynamically Changing Context
Weakness ID: 344
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a constant value, name, or reference, but this value can (or should) vary across dif ferent environments.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
ParentOf 323 Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption
ParentOf 587 Assignment of a Fixed Address to a Pointer
ParentOf 798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code is an example of an internal hard-coded password in the back-end:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(password, "Mew!")) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0)
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (!password.equals("Mew!")) {
return(0)
}
//Diagnostic Mode
return(1);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-344: Use of Invariant Value in Dynamically Changing Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/344.html 2/2Every instance of this program can be placed into diagnostic mode with the same password. Even worse is the fact that if this
program is distributed as a binary-only distribution, it is very dif ficult to change that password or disable this "functionality ."
Example 2
This code assumes a particular function will always be found at a particular address. It assigns a pointer to that address and calls the
function.
The same function may not always be found at the same memory address. This could lead to a crash, or an attacker may alter the
memory at the expected address, leading to arbitrary code execution.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0980 Component for web browser writes an error message to a known location, which can then be
referenced by attackers to process HTML/script in a less restrictive context
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
overlaps default configuration.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Static V alue in Unpredictable Context
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int (\*pt2Function) (float, char, char)=0x08040000;
int result2 = (\*pt2Function) (12, 'a', 'b');
// Here we can inject code to execute.