3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1326: Missing Immutable Root of Trust in Hardware (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1326.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1326: Missing Immutable Root of T rust in Hardware
Weakness ID: 1326
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A missing immutable root of trust in the hardware results in the ability to bypass secure boot or execute untrusted or adversarial boot
code.
 Extended Description
A System-on-Chip (SoC) implements secure boot by verifying or authenticating signed boot code. The signing of the code is achieved
by an entity that the SoC trusts. Before executing the boot code, the SoC verifies that the code or the public key with which the code
has been signed has not been tampered with. The other data upon which the SoC depends are system-hardware settings in fuses
such as whether "Secure Boot is enabled". These data play a crucial role in establishing a Root of Trust (RoT) to execute secure-boot
flows.
One of the many ways RoT is achieved is by storing the code and data in memory or fuses. This memory should be immutable, i.e.,
once the RoT is programmed/provisioned in memory , that memory should be locked and prevented from further programming or
writes. If the memory contents (i.e., RoT) are mutable, then an adversary can modify the RoT to execute their choice of code,
resulting in a compromised secure boot.
Note that, for components like ROM, secure patching/update features should be supported to allow authenticated and authorized
updates in the field.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during policy definition, hardware architecture, design, manufacturing,
and/or provisioning. They can be identified later during testing or system configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Security Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Authentication
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify MemoryHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1326: Missing Immutable Root of Trust in Hardware (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1326.html 2/3The RoT is stored in memory . This memory can be modified by an adversary . For example, if an SoC implements "Secure Boot" by
storing the boot code in an of f-chip/on-chip flash, the contents of the flash can be modified by using a flash programmer . Similarly , if
the boot code is stored in ROM (Read-Only Memory) but the public key or the hash of the public key (used to enable "Secure Boot") is
stored in Flash or a memory that is susceptible to modifications or writes, the implementation is vulnerable.
In general, if the boot code, key materials and data that enable "Secure Boot" are all mutable, the implementation is vulnerable.
Good architecture defines RoT as immutable in hardware. One of the best ways to achieve immutability is to store boot code, public
key or hash of the public key and other relevant data in Read-Only Memory (ROM) or One-T ime Programmable (OTP) memory that
prevents further programming or writes.
Example 2
The example code below is a snippet from the bootrom of the HACK@DAC'19 buggy OpenPiton SoC [ REF-1348 ]. The contents of
the bootrom are critical in implementing the hardware root of trust.
It performs security-critical functions such as defining the system's device tree, validating the hardware cryptographic accelerators in
the system, etc. Hence, write access to bootrom should be strictly limited to authorized users or removed completely so that bootrom
is immutable. In this example (see the vulnerable code source), the boot instructions are stored in bootrom memory , mem. This
memory can be read using the read address, addr\_i, but write access should be restricted or removed.
The vulnerable code shows an insecure implementation of the bootrom where bootrom can be written directly by enabling write
enable, we\_i, and using write address, addr\_i, and write data, wdata\_i.
To mitigate this issue, remove the write access to bootrom memory . [REF-1349 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
When architecting the system, the RoT should be designated for storage in a memory that does not allow further
programming/writes.
Phase: Implementation
During implementation and test, the RoT memory location should be demonstrated to not allow further programming/writes.
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated testing can verify that RoT components are immutable.
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
Root of trust elements and memory should be part of architecture and design reviews.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
always\_ff @(posedge clk\_i) begin
if (req\_i) begin
if (!we\_i) begin
raddr\_q <= addr\_i[$clog2(RomSize)-1+3:3];
end else begin
mem[addr\_i[$clog2(RomSize)-1+3:3]] <= wdata\_i;
end
end
end
...
// this prevents spurious Xes from propagating into the speculative fetch stage of the core
assign rdata\_o = (raddr\_q < RomSize) ? mem[raddr\_q] : '0;
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
always\_ff @(posedge clk\_i) begin
if (req\_i) begin
raddr\_q <= addr\_i[$clog2(RomSize)-1+3:3];
end
end
...
// this prevents spurious Xes from propagating into the speculative fetch stage of the core
assign rdata\_o = (raddr\_q < RomSize) ? mem[raddr\_q] : '0;
...3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1326: Missing Immutable Root of Trust in Hardware (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1326.html 3/3MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
CAPEC-68 Subvert Code-signing Facilities
 References
[REF-1152] Trusted Computing Group. "TCG Roots of Trust Specification". 2018-07. < https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-
content/uploads/TCG\_Roots\_of\_T rust\_Specification\_v0p20\_PUBLIC\_REVIEW .pdf>.
[REF-1153] GlobalPlatform Security Task Force. "Root of Trust Definitions and Requirements". 2017-03.
.
[REF-1348] "bootrom.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/619e9fb0ef32ee1e01ad76b8732a156572c65700/bootrom/bootrom.sv#L263C19-L263C19 >. URL
validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1349] "bootrom.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/ba6abf58586b2bf4401e9f4d46e3f084c664f f88/bootrom/bootrom.sv#L259C9-L259C9 >. URL validated:
2023-09-18 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-25
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
