3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-298: Improper Validation of Certiﬁcate Expiration (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/298.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-298: Improper V alidation of Certificate Expiration
Weakness ID: 298
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A certificate expiration is not validated or is incorrectly validated, so trust may be assigned to certificates that have been abandoned
due to age.
 Extended Description
When the expiration of a certificate is not taken into account, no trust has necessarily been conveyed through it. Therefore, the validity
of the certificate cannot be verified and all benefit of the certificate is lost.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
ChildOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
PeerOf 324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date
PeerOf 370 Missing Check for Certificate Revocation after Initial Check
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationWhen the software uses certificate pinning, the developer might not properly validate all relevant components of
the certificate before pinning the certificate. This can make it dif ficult or expensive to test after the pinning is
complete.
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
The data read from the system vouched for by the expired certificate may be flawed due to malicious
spoofing.
Authentication
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Trust af forded to the system in question - based on the expired certificate - may allow for spoofing
attacks.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following OpenSSL code ensures that there is a certificate and allows the use of expired certificates.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer(certificate(ssl)) {
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if ((X509\_V\_OK==foo) || (X509\_V\_ERR\_CERT\_HAS\_EXPIRED==foo))
//do stuff3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-298: Improper Validation of Certiﬁcate Expiration (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/298.html 2/2If the call to SSL\_get\_verify\_result() returns X509\_V\_ERR\_CER T\_HAS\_EXPIRED, this means that the certificate has expired. As
time goes on, there is an increasing chance for attackers to compromise the certificate.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Check for expired certificates and provide the user with adequate information about the nature of the problem and how to
proceed.
Phase: Implementation
If certificate pinning is being used, ensure that all relevant properties of the certificate are fully validated before the certificate is
pinned, including the expiration.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 948 SFP Secondary Cluster: Digital Certificate
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to validate certificate expiration
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
