3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-650: Trusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/650.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-650: T rusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side
Weakness ID: 650
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The server contains a protection mechanism that assumes that any URI that is accessed using HTTP GET will not cause a state
change to the associated resource. This might allow attackers to bypass intended access restrictions and conduct resource
modification and deletion attacks, since some applications allow GET to modify state.
 Extended Description
The HTTP GET method and some other methods are designed to retrieve resources and not to alter the state of the application or
resources on the server side. Furthermore, the HTTP specification requires that GET requests (and other requests) should not have
side ef fects. Believing that it will be enough to prevent unintended resource alterations, an application may disallow the HTTP
requests to perform DELETE, PUT and POST operations on the resource representation. However , there is nothing in the HTTP
protocol itself that actually prevents the HTTP GET method from performing more than just query of the data. Developers can easily
code programs that accept a HTTP GET request that do in fact create, update or delete data on the server . For instance, it is a
common practice with REST based W eb Services to have HTTP GET requests modifying resources on the server side. However ,
whenever that happens, the access control needs to be properly enforced in the application. No assumptions should be made that
only HTTP DELETE, PUT , POST , and other methods have the power to alter the representation of the resource being accessed in the
request.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could escalate privileges.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could modify resources.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
An attacker could obtain sensitive information.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Configure ACLs on the server side to ensure that proper level of access control is defined for each accessible resource
representation.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-650: Trusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/650.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 945 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource Access
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
