3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1025: Comparison Using Wrong Factors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1025.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1025: Comparison Using W rong Factors
Weakness ID: 1025
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code performs a comparison between two entities, but the comparison examines the wrong factors or characteristics of the
entities, which can lead to incorrect results and resultant weaknesses.
 Extended Description
This can lead to incorrect results and resultant weaknesses. For example, the code might inadvertently compare references to
objects, instead of the relevant contents of those objects, causing two "equal" objects to be considered unequal.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 697 Incorrect Comparison
ParentOf 486 Comparison of Classes by Name
ParentOf 595 Comparison of Object References Instead of Object Contents
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the example below , two Java String objects are declared and initialized with the same string values. An if statement is used to
determine if the strings are equivalent.
However , the if statement will not be executed as the strings are compared using the "==" operator . For Java objects, such as String
objects, the "==" operator compares object references, not object values. While the two String objects above contain the same string
values, they refer to dif ferent object references, so the System.out.println statement will not be executed. To compare object values,
the previous code could be modified to use the equals method:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String str1 = new String("Hello");
String str2 = new String("Hello");
if (str1 == str2) {
System.out.println("str1 == str2");
}
(good code) 
if (str1.equals(str2)) {
St titl("t1 lt2")3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1025: Comparison Using Wrong Factors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1025.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Thoroughly test the comparison scheme before deploying code into production. Perform positive testing as well as negative
testing.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-01-04
(CWE 3.1, 2018-03-29)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
System.out.println("str1 equals str2");
}