3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-823: Use of Out-of-range Pointer Oﬀset (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/823.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-823: Use of Out-of-range Pointer Offset
Weakness ID: 823
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs pointer arithmetic on a valid pointer , but it uses an of fset that can point outside of the intended range of valid
memory locations for the resulting pointer .
 Extended Description
While a pointer can contain a reference to any arbitrary memory location, a program typically only intends to use the pointer to access
limited portions of memory , such as contiguous memory used to access an individual array .
Programs may use of fsets in order to access fields or sub-elements stored within structured data. The of fset might be out-of-range if it
comes from an untrusted source, is the result of an incorrect calculation, or occurs because of another error .
If an attacker can control or influence the of fset so that it points outside of the intended boundaries of the structure, then the attacker
may be able to read or write to memory locations that are used elsewhere in the product. As a result, the attack might change the
state of the product as accessed through program variables, cause a crash or instable behavior , and possibly lead to code execution.
 Alternate T erms
Untrusted pointer offset: This term is narrower than the concept of "out-of-range" of fset, since the of fset might be the result of
a calculation or other error that does not depend on any externally-supplied values.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanFollow 129 Improper V alidation of Array Index
CanPrecede 125 Out-of-bounds Read
CanPrecede 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
If the untrusted pointer is used in a read operation, an attacker might be able to read sensitive
portions of memory .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If the untrusted pointer references a memory location that is not accessible to the program, or points
to a location that is "malformed" or larger than expected by a read or write operation, the application
may terminate unexpectedly .
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Memory
If the untrusted pointer is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation,
then code execution may be possible.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-2160 Invalid of fset in undocumented opcode leads to memory corruption.
CVE-2010-1281 Multimedia player uses untrusted value from a file when using file-pointer calculations.
CVE-2009-3129 Spreadsheet program processes a record with an invalid size field, which is later used as an of fset.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-823: Use of Out-of-range Pointer Oﬀset (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/823.html 2/2CVE-2009-2694 Instant messaging library does not validate an of fset value specified in a packet.
CVE-2009-2687 Language interpreter does not properly handle invalid of fsets in JPEG image, leading to out-of-bounds
memory access and crash.
CVE-2009-0690 negative of fset leads to out-of-bounds read
CVE-2008-4114 untrusted of fset in kernel
CVE-2010-2873 "blind trust" of an of fset value while writing heap memory allows corruption of function pointer ,leading to
code execution
CVE-2010-2866 negative value (signed) causes pointer miscalculation
CVE-2010-2872 signed values cause incorrect pointer calculation
CVE-2007-5657 values used as pointer of fsets
CVE-2010-2867 a return value from a function is sign-extended if the value is signed, then used as an of fset for pointer
arithmetic
CVE-2009-1097 portions of a GIF image used as of fsets, causing corruption of an object pointer .
CVE-2008-1807 invalid numeric field leads to a free of arbitrary memory locations, then code execution.
CVE-2007-2500 large number of elements leads to a free of an arbitrary address
CVE-2008-1686 array index issue ( CWE-129 ) with negative of fset, used to dereference a function pointer
CVE-2010-2878 "buffer seek" value - basically an of fset?
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Many weaknesses related to pointer dereferences fall under the general term of "memory corruption" or "memory safety ." As of
September 2010, there is no commonly-used terminology that covers the lower-level variants.
Maintenance
There are close relationships between incorrect pointer dereferences and other weaknesses related to buf fer operations. There may
not be suf ficient community agreement regarding these relationships. Further study is needed to determine when these relationships
are chains, composites, perspective/layering, or other types of relationships. As of September 2010, most of the relationships are
being captured as chains.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-129 Pointer Manipulation
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Pointer
Arithmetic", Page 277. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-09-22
(CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
