3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-767: Access to Critical Private Variable via Public Method (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/767.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-767: Access to Critical Private V ariable via Public Method
Weakness ID: 767
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product defines a public method that reads or modifies a private variable.
 Extended Description
If an attacker modifies the variable to contain unexpected values, this could violate assumptions from other parts of the code.
Additionally , if an attacker can read the private variable, it may expose sensitive information or make it easier to launch further attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 275 Permission Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Other
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example declares a critical variable to be private, and then allows the variable to be modified by public methods.
Example 2
The following example could be used to implement a user forum where a single user (UID) can switch between multiple profiles (PID).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
private: float price;
public: void changePrice(float newPrice) {
price = newPrice;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class Client {
private int UID;
public int PID;
private String userName;
public Client(String userName){
PID tDfltPfilID()3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-767: Access to Critical Private Variable via Public Method (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/767.html 2/2The programmer implemented setPID with the intention of modifying the PID variable, but due to a typo. accidentally specified the
critical variable UID instead. If the program allows profile IDs to be between 1 and 10, but a UID of 1 means the user is treated as an
admin, then a user could gain administrative privileges as a result of this typo.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use class accessor and mutator methods appropriately . Perform validation when accepting data from a public method that is
intended to modify a critical private variable. Also be sure that appropriate access controls are being applied when a public
method interfaces with critical data.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1184 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is closely associated with access control for public methods. If the public methods are restricted with proper access
controls, then the information in the private variable will not be exposed to unexpected parties. There may be chaining or composite
relationships between improper access controls and this weakness.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to protect stored data from modification
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardOOP31-PL Imprecise Do not access private variables or subroutines in other packages
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-03-03
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
PID = getDefaultProfileID();
UID = mapUserNametoUID( userName );
this.userName = userName;
}
public void setPID(int ID) {
UID = ID;
}
}