3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-775: Missing Release of File Descriptor or Handle after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/775.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-775: Missing Release of File Descriptor or Handle after Effective Lifetime
Weakness ID: 775
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not release a file descriptor or handle after its ef fective lifetime has ended, i.e., after the file descriptor/handle is no
longer needed.
 Extended Description
When a file descriptor or handle is not released after use (typically by explicitly closing it), attackers can cause a denial of service by
consuming all available file descriptors/handles, or otherwise preventing other system processes from obtaining their own file
descriptors/handles.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 772 Missing Release of Resource after Ef fective Lifetime
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
An attacker that can influence the allocation of resources that are not properly released could deplete
the available resource pool and prevent all other processes from accessing the same type of resource.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0897 Chain: anti-virus product encounters a malformed file but returns from a function without closing a file
descriptor ( CWE-775 ) leading to file descriptor consumption ( CWE-400 ) and failed scans.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Operation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Resource Limitation
Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system
resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many
resources are available. However , these functions are not available on all operating systems.
When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770 ), then limit the allocation of
further resources to privileged users; alternately , begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may
protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users.
Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable
(CWE-703 ).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 982 SFP Secondary Cluster: Failure to Release Resource
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle ManagementAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-775: Missing Release of File Descriptor or Handle after Eﬀective Lifetime (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/775.html 2/2
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding FIO42-C CWE More Abstract Close files when they are no longer needed
Software Fault Patterns SFP14 Failure to Release Resource
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 10, "File Descriptor
Leaks", Page 582. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-13
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications