3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1277: Firmware Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1277.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1277: Firmware Not Updateable
Weakness ID: 1277
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not provide its users with the ability to update or patch its firmware to address any vulnerabilities or weaknesses
that may be present.
 Extended Description
Without the ability to patch or update firmware, consumers will be left vulnerable to exploitation of any known vulnerabilities, or any
vulnerabilities that are discovered in the future. This can expose consumers to permanent risk throughout the entire lifetime of the
device, which could be years or decades. Some external protective measures and mitigations might be employed to aid in preventing
or reducing the risk of malicious attack, but the root weakness cannot be corrected.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1329 Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1208 Cross-Cutting Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
RequirementsRequirements development might not consider the importance of updates over the lifetime of the
product, or might not choose the ability due to concerns such as expense or speed to market.
Architecture and DesignLack of planning during architecture development and design, or external pressures such as speed to
market, could ignore the capability to update.
Implementation The weakness can appear through oversight during implementation.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
Authentication
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If an attacker can identify an exploitable vulnerability in one device that has no means of patching,
the attack may be used against an entire class of devices.Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A refrigerator has an Internet interface for the of ficial purpose of alerting the manufacturer when that refrigerator detects a fault.
Because the device is attached to the Internet, the refrigerator is a target for hackers who may wish to use the device other potentially
more nefarious purposes.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1277: Firmware Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1277.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-9054 Chain: network-attached storage (NAS) device has a critical OS command injection ( CWE-78 )
vulnerability that is actively exploited to place IoT devices into a botnet, but some products are "end-of-
support" and cannot be patched ( CWE-1277 ). [REF-1097 ]
A hardware "smart lock" has weak key generation that allows attackers to steal the key by BLE snif fing,
but the device's firmware cannot be upgraded and hence remains vulnerable [ REF-1095 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Specify requirements to include the ability to update the firmware. Include integrity checks and authentication to ensure that
untrusted firmware cannot be installed.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design the device to allow for updating the firmware. Ensure that the design specifies how to distribute the updates and ensure
their integrity and authentication.
Phase: Implementation
Implement the necessary functionality to allow the firmware to be updated.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Create a new installable boot image of the current build with a minor version number change. Use the standard installation
method to update the boot image. V erify that the minor version number has changed. Create a fake image. V erify that the boot
updater will not install the fake image and generates an "invalid image" error message or equivalent.
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
Check the consumer or maintainer documentation, the architecture/design documentation, or the original requirements to ensure
that the documentation includes details for how to update the firmware.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Determine if there is a lack of a capability to update read-only memory (ROM) structure. This could manifest as a dif ference
between the latest firmware version and the current version within the device.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The refrigerator has no means of patching and is hacked becoming a spewer of email spam.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The device automatically patches itself and provides considerable more protection against being hacked.3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1277: Firmware Not Updateable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1277.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
The "firmware" term does not have a single commonly-shared definition, so there may be variations in how this CWE entry is
interpreted during mapping.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-682 Exploitation of Firmware or ROM Code with Unpatchable V ulnerabilities
 References
[REF-1095] Matthew Hughes. "Bad news: KeyW e Smart Lock is easily bypassed and can't be fixed". 2019-12-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1096] Alex Scroxton. "Alarm bells ring, the IoT is listening". < https://www .computerweekly .com/news/252475324/Alarm-
bells-ring-the-IoT -is-listening >.
[REF-1097] Brian Krebs. "Zyxel Flaw Powers New Mirai IoT Botnet Strain". 2020-03-20.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-13
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Paul A. W ortman Wells Fargo
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-12 Paul A. W ortman Wells Fargo
provided detection methods and observed examples
 Modifications