3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-219: Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under Web Root (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/219.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-219: Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under W eb Root
Weakness ID: 219
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive data under the web document root with insuf ficient access control, which might make it accessible to
untrusted parties.
 Extended Description
Besides public-facing web pages and code, products may store sensitive data, code that is not directly invoked, or other files under
the web document root of the web server . If the server is not configured or otherwise used to prevent direct access to those files, then
attackers may obtain this sensitive data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 552 Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties
ParentOf 433 Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1835 Data file under web root.
CVE-2005-2217 Data file under web root.
CVE-2002-1449 Username/password in data file under web root.
CVE-2002-0943 Database file under web root.
CVE-2005-1645 database file under web root.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration
Avoid storing information under the web root directory .
Phase: System Configuration
Access control permissions should be set to prevent reading/writing of sensitive files inside/outside of the web directory .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 815 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed DataAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-219: Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under Web Root (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/219.html 2/2MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Sensitive Data Under W eb Root
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A10 CWE More Specific Insecure Configuration Management
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
