3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-538: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/538.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-538: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or
Directory
Weakness ID: 538
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product places sensitive information into files or directories that are accessible to actors who are allowed to have access to the
files, but not to the sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
ParentOf 532 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File
ParentOf 540 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code
ParentOf 651 Exposure of WSDL File Containing Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation OMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design phase.
Operation OMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code snippet, a user's full name and credit card number are written to a log file.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2018-1999036 SSH password for private key stored in build log
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation; System Configuration
Do not expose file and directory information to the user .
 Detection MethodsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
logger.info("Username: " + usernme + ", CCN: " + ccn);3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-538: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/538.html 2/2Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 815 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
Depending on usage, this could be a weakness or a category . Further study of all its children is needed, and the entire sub-tree may
need to be clarified. The current organization is based primarily on the exposure of sensitive information as a consequence, instead
of as a primary weakness.
Maintenance
There is a close relationship with CWE-552 , which is more focused on weaknesses. As a result, it may be more appropriate to
convert CWE-538 to a category .
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-95 WSDL Scanning
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 12: Information Leakage."
Page 191. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
