3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-273: Improper Check for Dropped Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/273.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-273: Improper Check for Dropped Privileges
Weakness ID: 273
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product attempts to drop privileges but does not check or incorrectly checks to see if the drop succeeded.
 Extended Description
If the drop fails, the product will continue to run with the raised privileges, which might provide additional access to unprivileged users.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 271 Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors
ChildOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
PeerOf 252 Unchecked Return V alue
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
In Windows based environments that have access control, impersonation is used so that access checks can be performed on a client
identity by a server with higher privileges. By impersonating the client, the server is restricted to client-level security -- although in
different threads it may have much higher privileges.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
This issue is likely to occur in restrictive environments in which the operating system or application provides fine-
grained control over privilege management.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If privileges are not dropped, neither are access rights of the user . Often these rights can be
prevented from being dropped.
Access Control
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Hide Activities
If privileges are not dropped, in some cases the system may record actions as the user which is
being impersonated rather than the impersonator .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-273: Improper Check for Dropped Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/273.html 2/3This code attempts to take on the privileges of a user before creating a file, thus avoiding performing the action with unnecessarily
high privileges:
The call to ImpersonateNamedPipeClient may fail, but the return value is not checked. If the call fails, the code may execute with
higher privileges than intended. In this case, an attacker could exploit this behavior to write a file to a location that the attacker does
not have access to.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-4447 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
CVE-2006-2916 Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave
users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phase: Implementation
Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is expected.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Checking the return value of the function will typically be suf ficient, however beware of race conditions ( CWE-362 ) in a
concurrent environment.
Phase: Implementation
In Windows, make sure that the process token has the SeImpersonatePrivilege(Microsoft Server 2003). Code that relies on
impersonation for security must ensure that the impersonation succeeded, i.e., that a proper privilege demotion happened.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
bool DoSecureStuff(HANDLE hPipe) {
bool fDataWritten = false;
ImpersonateNamedPipeClient(hPipe);
HANDLE hFile = CreateFile(...);
/../
RevertToSelf()
/../
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-273: Improper Check for Dropped Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/273.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to check whether privileges were dropped successfully
CER T C Secure Coding POS37-C Exact Ensure that privilege relinquishment is successful
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names