3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1046: Creation of Immutable Text Using String Concatenation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1046.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1046: Creation of Immutable T ext Using String Concatenation
Weakness ID: 1046
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product creates an immutable text string using string concatenation operations.
 Extended Description
When building a string via a looping feature (e.g., a FOR or WHILE loop), the use of += to append to the existing string will result in
the creation of a new object with each iteration. This programming pattern can be inef ficient in comparison with use of text buf fer data
elements. This issue can make the product perform more slowly . If the relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this could be
influenced to create performance problem.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1176 Inefficient CPU Computation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Performance
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1132 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Performance Ef ficiency
MemberOf 1309 CISQ Quality Measures - Ef ficiency
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCPEM ASCPEM-About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1046: Creation of Immutable Text Using String Concatenation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1046.html 2/2PRF-2
 References
[REF-959] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Performance Ef ficiency Measure (ASCPEM)". ASCPEM-
PRF-2. 2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCPEM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications