3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-81: Improper Neutralization of Script in an Error Message Web Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/81.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-81: Improper Neutralization of Script in an Error Message W eb Page
Weakness ID: 81
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special characters that
could be interpreted as web-scripting elements when they are sent to an error page.
 Extended Description
Error pages may include customized 403 Forbidden or 404 Not Found pages.
When an attacker can trigger an error that contains script syntax within the attacker's input, then cross-site scripting attacks may be
possible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
CanAlsoBe 209 Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
CanAlsoBe 390 Detection of Error Condition Without Action
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0840 XSS in default error page from Host: header .
CVE-2002-1053 XSS in error message.
CVE-2002-1700 XSS in error page from targeted parameter .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Do not write user-controlled input to error pages.
Phase: Implementation
Carefully check each input parameter against a rigorous positive specification (allowlist) defining the specific characters and
format allowed. All input should be neutralized, not just parameters that the user is supposed to specify , but all data in the
request, including hidden fields, cookies, headers, the URL itself, and so forth. A common mistake that leads to continuing XSS
vulnerabilities is to validate only fields that are expected to be redisplayed by the site. W e often encounter data from the request
that is reflected by the application server or the application that the development team did not anticipate. Also, a field that is not
currently reflected may be used by a future developer . Therefore, validating ALL parts of the HTTP request is recommended.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output EncodingAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-81: Improper Neutralization of Script in an Error Message Web Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/81.html 2/2Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
The problem of inconsistent output encodings often arises in web pages. If an encoding is not specified in an HTTP header , web
browsers often guess about which encoding is being used. This can open up the browser to subtle XSS attacks.
Phase: Implementation
With Struts, write all data from form beans with the bean's filter attribute set to true.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
To help mitigate XSS attacks against the user's session cookie, set the session cookie to be HttpOnly . In browsers that support
the HttpOnly feature (such as more recent versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox), this attribute can prevent the user's session
cookie from being accessible to malicious client-side scripts that use document.cookie. This is not a complete solution, since
HttpOnly is not supported by all browsers. More importantly , XMLHTTPRequest and other powerful browser technologies
provide read access to HTTP headers, including the Set-Cookie header in which the HttpOnly flag is set.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER XSS in error pages
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-198 XSS Targeting Error Pages
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 11: Failure to Handle
Errors Correctly ." Page 183. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
