3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-374: Passing Mutable Objects to an Untrusted Method (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/374.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-374: Passing Mutable Objects to an Untrusted Method
Weakness ID: 374
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product sends non-cloned mutable data as an argument to a method or function.
 Extended Description
The function or method that has been called can alter or delete the mutable data. This could violate assumptions that the calling
function has made about its state. In situations where unknown code is called with references to mutable data, this external code
could make changes to the data sent. If this data was not previously cloned, the modified data might not be valid in the context of
execution.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 371 State Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
Potentially data could be tampered with by another function which should not have been tampered with.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
private:
int foo;
complexType bar;
String baz;
otherClass externalClass;
public:
void doStuff() {
t lCldOthStff(fbb)3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-374: Passing Mutable Objects to an Untrusted Method (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/374.html 2/3In this example, bar and baz will be passed by reference to doOtherStuf f() which may change them.
Example 2
In the following Java example, the BookStore class manages the sale of books in a bookstore, this class includes the member objects
for the bookstore inventory and sales database manager classes. The BookStore class includes a method for updating the sales
database and inventory when a book is sold. This method retrieves a Book object from the bookstore inventory object using the
supplied ISBN number for the book class, then calls a method for the sales object to update the sales information and then calls a
method for the inventory object to update inventory for the BookStore.
However , in this example the Book object that is retrieved and passed to the method of the sales object could have its contents
modified by the method. This could cause unexpected results when the book object is sent to the method for the inventory object to
update the inventory .
In the Java programming language arguments to methods are passed by value, however in the case of objects a reference to the
object is passed by value to the method. When an object reference is passed as a method argument a copy of the object reference is
made within the method and therefore both references point to the same object. This allows the contents of the object to be modified
by the method that holds the copy of the object reference. [ REF-374 ]
In this case the contents of the Book object could be modified by the method of the sales object prior to the call to update the
inventory .
To prevent the contents of the Book object from being modified, a copy of the Book object should be made before the method call to
the sales object. In the following example a copy of the Book object is made using the clone() method and the copy of the Book object
is passed to the method of the sales object. This will prevent any changes being made to the original Book object.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Pass in data which should not be altered as constant or immutable.externalClass.doOtherStuff(foo, bar, baz)
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class BookStore {
private BookStoreInventory inventory;
private SalesDBManager sales;
...
// constructor for BookStore
public BookStore() {
this.inventory = new BookStoreInventory();
this.sales = new SalesDBManager();
...
}
public void updateSalesAndInventoryForBookSold(String bookISBN) {
// Get book object from inventory using ISBN
Book book = inventory.getBookWithISBN(bookISBN);
// update sales information for book sold
sales.updateSalesInformation(book);
// update inventory
inventory.updateInventory(book);
}
// other BookStore methods
...
}
public class Book {
private String title;
private String author;
private String isbn;
// Book object constructors and get/set methods
...
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
...
public void updateSalesAndInventoryForBookSold(String bookISBN) {
// Get book object from inventory using ISBN
Book book = inventory.getBookWithISBN(bookISBN);
// Create copy of book object to make sure contents are not changed
Book bookSold = (Book) book.clone();
// update sales information for book sold
sales.updateSalesInformation(bookSold);
// update inventory
inventory.updateInventory(book);
}
...3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-374: Passing Mutable Objects to an Untrusted Method (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/374.html 3/3Phase: Implementation
Clone all mutable data before passing it into an external function . This is the preferred mitigation. This way , regardless of what
changes are made to the data, a valid copy is retained for use by the class.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 849 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 6 - Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1139 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 05. Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
CLASP Passing mutable objects to an untrusted method
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)OBJ04-J Provide mutable classes with copy functionality to safely allow passing
instances to untrusted code
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-374] Tony Sintes. "Does Java pass by reference or pass by value?". JavaW orld.com. 2000-05-26.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-375] Herbert Schildt. "Java: The Complete Reference, J2SE 5th Edition".
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
