3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-13: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/13.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-13: ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Password in Configuration File
Weakness ID: 13
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Storing a plaintext password in a configuration file allows anyone who can read the file access to the password-protected resource
making them an easy target for attackers.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 260 Password in Configuration File
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database, but the pair is stored in plaintext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in plaintext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Credentials stored in configuration files should be encrypted, Use standard APIs and industry accepted algorithms to encrypt the
credentials stored in configuration files.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-13: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Password in Conﬁguration File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/13.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Password in Configuration File
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-103] Microsoft Corporation. "How To: Encrypt Configuration Sections in ASP.NET 2.0 Using DP API".
. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-104] Microsoft Corporation. "How To: Encrypt Configuration Sections in ASP.NET 2.0 Using RSA".
. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-105] Microsoft Corporation. ".NET Framework Developer's Guide - Securing Connection Strings".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications