3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper
Synchronization ('Race Condition')
Weakness ID: 362
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains a code sequence that can run concurrently with other code, and the code sequence requires temporary ,
exclusive access to a shared resource, but a timing window exists in which the shared resource can be modified by another code
sequence that is operating concurrently .
 Extended Description
This can have security implications when the expected synchronization is in security-critical code, such as recording whether a user is
authenticated or modifying important state information that should not be influenced by an outsider .
A race condition occurs within concurrent environments, and is ef fectively a property of a code sequence. Depending on the context, a
code sequence may be in the form of a function call, a small number of instructions, a series of program invocations, etc.
A race condition violates these properties, which are closely related:
Exclusivity - the code sequence is given exclusive access to the shared resource, i.e., no other code sequence can modify
properties of the shared resource before the original sequence has completed execution.
Atomicity - the code sequence is behaviorally atomic, i.e., no other thread or process can concurrently execute the same
sequence of instructions (or a subset) against the same resource.
A race condition exists when an "interfering code sequence" can still access the shared resource, violating exclusivity . Programmers
may assume that certain code sequences execute too quickly to be af fected by an interfering code sequence; when they are not, this
violates atomicity . For example, the single "x++" statement may appear atomic at the code layer , but it is actually non-atomic at the
instruction layer , since it involves a read (the original value of x), followed by a computation (x+1), followed by a write (save the result
to x).
The interfering code sequence could be "trusted" or "untrusted." A trusted interfering code sequence occurs within the product; it
cannot be modified by the attacker , and it can only be invoked indirectly . An untrusted interfering code sequence can be authored
directly by the attacker , and typically it is external to the vulnerable product.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
ParentOf 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
ParentOf 366 Race Condition within a Thread
ParentOf 367 Time-of-check Time-of-use (T OCT OU) Race Condition
ParentOf 368 Context Switching Race Condition
ParentOf 421 Race Condition During Access to Alternate Channel
ParentOf 689 Permission Race Condition During Resource Copy
ParentOf 1223 Race Condition for W rite-Once Attributes
ParentOf 1298 Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions
CanFollow 662 Improper Synchronization
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
Java (Sometimes Prevalent)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 2/7Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Other)
When a race condition makes it possible to bypass a resource cleanup routine or trigger multiple
initialization routines, it may lead to resource exhaustion ( CWE-400 ).
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability
When a race condition allows multiple control flows to access a resource simultaneously , it might
lead the product(s) into unexpected states, possibly resulting in a crash.
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Read Application Data
When a race condition is combined with predictable resource names and loose permissions, it may
be possible for an attacker to overwrite or access confidential data ( CWE-59 ).
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code could be used in an e-commerce application that supports transfers between accounts. It takes the total amount of the
transfer , sends it to the new account, and deducts the amount from the original account.
A race condition could occur between the calls to GetBalanceFromDatabase() and SendNewBalanceT oDatabase().
Suppose the balance is initially 100.00. An attack could be constructed as follows:
At this stage, the attacker should have a balance of 19.00 (due to 81.00 worth of transfers), but the balance is 99.00, as recorded in
the database.
To prevent this weakness, the programmer has several options, including using a lock to prevent multiple simultaneous requests to
the web application, or using a synchronization mechanism that includes all the code between GetBalanceFromDatabase() and
SendNewBalanceT oDatabase().
Example 2
The following function attempts to acquire a lock in order to perform operations on a shared resource.
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$transfer\_amount = GetTransferAmount();
$balance = GetBalanceFromDatabase();
if ($transfer\_amount < 0) {
FatalError("Bad Transfer Amount");
}
$newbalance = $balance - $transfer\_amount;
if (($balance - $transfer\_amount) < 0) {
FatalError("Insufficient Funds");
}
SendNewBalanceToDatabase($newbalance);
NotifyUser("Transfer of $transfer\_amount succeeded.");
NotifyUser("New balance: $newbalance");
(attack code) Example Language: Other 
In the following pseudocode, the attacker makes two simultaneous calls of the program, CALLER-1 and CALLER-2. Both callers are for
the same user account.
CALLER-1 (the attacker) is associated with PROGRAM-1 (the instance that handles CALLER-1). CALLER-2 is associated with
PROGRAM-2.
CALLER-1 makes a transfer request of 80.00.
PROGRAM-1 calls GetBalanceFromDatabase and sets $balance to 100.00
PROGRAM-1 calculates $newbalance as 20.00, then calls SendNewBalanceToDatabase().
Due to high server load, the PROGRAM-1 call to SendNewBalanceToDatabase() encounters a delay.
CALLER-2 makes a transfer request of 1.00.
PROGRAM-2 calls GetBalanceFromDatabase() and sets $balance to 100.00. This happens because the previous PROGRAM-1 request
was not processed yet.
PROGRAM-2 determines the new balance as 99.00.
After the initial delay, PROGRAM-1 commits its balance to the database, setting it to 20.00.
PROGRAM-2 sends a request to update the database, setting the balance to 99.00
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
thd tlk(t)3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 3/7However , the code does not check the value returned by pthread\_mutex\_lock() for errors. If pthread\_mutex\_lock() cannot acquire the
mutex for any reason, the function may introduce a race condition into the program and result in undefined behavior .
In order to avoid data races, correctly written programs must check the result of thread synchronization functions and appropriately
handle all errors, either by attempting to recover from them or reporting them to higher levels.
Example 3
Suppose a processor's Memory Management Unit (MMU) has 5 other shadow MMUs to distribute its workload for its various cores.
Each MMU has the start address and end address of "accessible" memory . Any time this accessible range changes (as per the
processor's boot status), the main MMU sends an update message to all the shadow MMUs.
Suppose the interconnect fabric does not prioritize such "update" packets over other general traf fic packets. This introduces a race
condition. If an attacker can flood the target with enough messages so that some of those attack packets reach the target before the
new access ranges gets updated, then the attacker can leverage this scenario.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29527 Go application for cloud management creates a world-writable sudoers file that allows local attackers to
inject sudo rules and escalate privileges to root by winning a race condition.
CVE-2021-1782 Chain: improper locking ( CWE-667 ) leads to race condition ( CWE-362 ), as exploited in the wild per
CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-0920 Chain: mobile platform race condition ( CWE-362 ) leading to use-after-free ( CWE-416 ), as exploited in
the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-6819 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) leads to use-after-free ( CWE-416 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA
KEV.
CVE-2019-18827 chain: JT AG interface is not disabled ( CWE-1191 ) during ROM code execution, introducing a race
condition ( CWE-362 ) to extract encryption keys
CVE-2019-1161 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) in anti-malware product allows deletion of files by creating a junction
(CWE-1386 ) and using hard links during the time window in which a temporary file is created and
deleted.
CVE-2015-1743 TOCT OU in sandbox process allows installation of untrusted browser add-ons by replacing a file after it
has been verified, but before it is executed
CVE-2014-8273 Chain: chipset has a race condition ( CWE-362 ) between when an interrupt handler detects an attempt
to write-enable the BIOS (in violation of the lock bit), and when the handler resets the write-enable bit
back to 0, allowing attackers to issue BIOS writes during the timing window [ REF-1237 ].
CVE-2008-5044 Race condition leading to a crash by calling a hook removal procedure while other activities are
occurring at the same time.
CVE-2008-2958 chain: time-of-check time-of-use (T OCT OU) race condition in program allows bypass of protection
mechanism that was designed to prevent symlink attacks.
CVE-2008-1570 chain: time-of-check time-of-use (T OCT OU) race condition in program allows bypass of protection
mechanism that was designed to prevent symlink attacks.
CVE-2008-0058 Unsynchronized caching operation enables a race condition that causes messages to be sent to a
deallocated object.
CVE-2008-0379 Race condition during initialization triggers a buf fer overflow .
CVE-2007-6599 Daemon crash by quickly performing operations and undoing them, which eventually leads to an
operation that does not acquire a lock.
CVE-2007-6180 chain: race condition triggers NULL pointer dereference
CVE-2007-5794 Race condition in library function could cause data to be sent to the wrong process.
CVE-2007-3970 Race condition in file parser leads to heap corruption.
CVE-2008-5021 chain: race condition allows attacker to access an object while it is still being initialized, causing
software to access uninitialized memory .
CVE-2009-4895 chain: race condition for an argument value, possibly resulting in NULL dereferencepthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
/\* access shared resource \*/
pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
int result;
result = pthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
if (0 != result)
return result;
/\* access shared resource \*/
return pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 4/7CVE-2009-3547 chain: race condition might allow resource to be released before operating on it, leading to NULL
dereference
CVE-2006-5051 Chain: Signal handler contains too much functionality ( CWE-828 ), introducing a race condition ( CWE-
362) that leads to a double free ( CWE-415 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
In languages that support it, use synchronization primitives. Only wrap these around critical code to minimize the impact on
performance.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use thread-safe capabilities such as the data access abstraction in Spring.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Minimize the usage of shared resources in order to remove as much complexity as possible from the control flow and to reduce
the likelihood of unexpected conditions occurring.
Additionally , this will minimize the amount of synchronization necessary and may even help to reduce the likelihood of a denial of
service where an attacker may be able to repeatedly trigger a critical section ( CWE-400 ).
Phase: Implementation
When using multithreading and operating on shared variables, only use thread-safe functions.
Phase: Implementation
Use atomic operations on shared variables. Be wary of innocent-looking constructs such as "x++". This may appear atomic at
the code layer , but it is actually non-atomic at the instruction layer , since it involves a read, followed by a computation, followed
by a write.
Phase: Implementation
Use a mutex if available, but be sure to avoid related weaknesses such as CWE-412 .
Phase: Implementation
Avoid double-checked locking ( CWE-609 ) and other implementation errors that arise when trying to avoid the overhead of
synchronization.
Phase: Implementation
Disable interrupts or signals over critical parts of the code, but also make sure that the code does not go into a large or infinite
loop.
Phase: Implementation
Use the volatile type modifier for critical variables to avoid unexpected compiler optimization or reordering. This does not
necessarily solve the synchronization problem, but it can help.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
 Detection Methods
Black Box
Black box methods may be able to identify evidence of race conditions via methods such as multiple simultaneous connections,
which may cause the software to become instable or crash. However , race conditions with very narrow timing windows would
not be detectable.
White Box
Common idioms are detectable in white box analysis, such as time-of-check-time-of-use (T OCT OU) file operations ( CWE-367 ),
or double-checked locking ( CWE-609 ).
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Race conditions may be detected with a stress-test by calling the software simultaneously from a large number of threads or
processes, and look for evidence of any unexpected behavior .
Insert breakpoints or delays in between relevant code statements to artificially expand the race window so that it will be easier to
detect.
Effectiveness: Moderate3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 5/7Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Framework-based Fuzzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 6/7MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 751 2009 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 801 2010 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 852 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 9 - V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 882 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 14 - Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 988 SFP Secondary Cluster: Race Condition Window
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1142 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 08. V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1376 ICS Engineering (Construction/Deployment): Security Gaps in Commissioning
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Research Gap
Race conditions in web applications are under-studied and probably under-reported. However , in 2008 there has been growing
interest in this area.
Research Gap
Much of the focus of race condition research has been in Time-of-check Time-of-use (T OCT OU) variants ( CWE-367 ), but many race
conditions are related to synchronization problems that do not necessarily require a time-of-check.
Research Gap
From a classification/taxonomy perspective, the relationships between concurrency and program state need closer investigation and
may be useful in organizing related issues.
Maintenance
The relationship between race conditions and synchronization problems ( CWE-662 ) needs to be further developed. They are not
necessarily two perspectives of the same core concept, since synchronization is only one technique for avoiding race conditions,
and synchronization can be used for other purposes besides race condition prevention.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Race Conditions
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA03-J Do not assume that a group of calls to independently atomic methods is
atomic
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-349] Andrei Alexandrescu. "volatile - Multithreaded Programmer's Best Friend". Dr . Dobb's. 2008-02-01.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-350] Steven Devijver . "Thread-safe webapps using Spring".
. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-362: Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condi…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/362.html 7/7[REF-351] David Wheeler . "Prevent race conditions". 2007-10-04. < https://www .ida.liu.se/~TDDC90/literature/papers/SP-race-
conditions.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-352] Matt Bishop. "Race Conditions, Files, and Security Flaws; or the Tortoise and the Hare Redux". 1995-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-353] David Wheeler . "Secure Programming for Linux and Unix HOWT O". 2003-03-03. < https://dwheeler .com/secure-
programs/Secure-Programs-HOWT O/avoid-race.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-354] Blake W atts. "Discovering and Exploiting Named Pipe Security Flaws for Fun and Profit". 2002-04.
. URL validated: 2023-
04-07 .
[REF-355] Roberto Paleari, Davide Marrone, Danilo Bruschi and Mattia Monga. "On Race V ulnerabilities in W eb Applications".
.
[REF-356] "A voiding Race Conditions and Insecure File Operations". Apple Developer Connection.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-357] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 25 - Race Conditions". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-26.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1237] CER T Coordination Center . "Intel BIOS locking mechanism contains race condition that enables write protection
bypass". 2015-01-05. < https://www .kb.cert.org/vuls/id/766164/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2010-04-30 Martin Sebor Cisco Systems, Inc.
Provided Demonstrative Example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names