3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-487: Reliance on Package-level Scope (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/487.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-487: Reliance on Package-level Scope
Weakness ID: 487
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Java packages are not inherently closed; therefore, relying on them for code security is not a good practice.
 Extended Description
The purpose of package scope is to prevent accidental access by other parts of a program. This is an ease-of-software-development
feature but not a security feature.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Any data in a Java package can be accessed outside of the Java framework if the package is
distributed.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
The data in a Java class can be modified by anyone outside of the Java framework if the packages is
distributed.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
package math;
public class Lebesgue implements Integration{
public final Static String youAreHidingThisFunction(functionToIntegrate){
return ...;
}
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-487: Reliance on Package-level Scope (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/487.html 2/2Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Data should be private static and final whenever possible. This will assure that your code is protected by instantiating early ,
preventing access and tampering.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 850 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 7 - Methods (MET)
MemberOf 966 SFP Secondary Cluster: Other Exposures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Relying on package-level scope
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MET04-J Do not increase the accessibility of overridden or hidden methods
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
