3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function
Weakness ID: 306
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not perform any authentication for functionality that requires a provable user identity or consumes a significant
amount of resources.
 Extended Description
As data is migrated to the cloud, if access does not require authentication, it can be easier for attackers to access the data from
anywhere on the Internet.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 287 Improper Authentication
ParentOf 288 Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
ParentOf 322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Other
Exposing critical functionality essentially provides an attacker with the privilege level of that
functionality . The consequences will depend on the associated functionality , but they can range from
reading or modifying sensitive data, access to administrative or other privileged functionality , or
possibly even execution of arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following Java example the method createBankAccount is used to create a BankAccount object for a bank management
application.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 2/6However , there is no authentication mechanism to ensure that the user creating this bank account object has the authority to create
new bank accounts. Some authentication mechanisms should be used to verify that the user has the authority to create bank account
objects.
The following Java code includes a boolean variable and method for authenticating a user . If the user has not been authenticated then
the createBankAccount will not create the bank account object.
Example 2
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors did not use any authentication for critical functionality in their OT products.
Example 3
In 2021, a web site operated by PeopleGIS stored data of US municipalities in Amazon W eb Service (A WS) Simple Storage Service
(S3) buckets.
While it was not publicly disclosed how the data was protected after discovery , multiple options could have been considered.
 Observed Examples
Reference Descriptionpublic BankAccount createBankAccount(String accountNumber, String accountType,
String accountName, String accountSSN, double balance) {
BankAccount account = new BankAccount();
account.setAccountNumber(accountNumber);
account.setAccountType(accountType);
account.setAccountOwnerName(accountName);
account.setAccountOwnerSSN(accountSSN);
account.setBalance(balance);
return account;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
private boolean isUserAuthentic = false;
// authenticate user,
// if user is authenticated then set variable to true
// otherwise set variable to false
public boolean authenticateUser(String username, String password) {
...
}
public BankAccount createNewBankAccount(String accountNumber, String accountType,
String accountName, String accountSSN, double balance) {
BankAccount account = null;
if (isUserAuthentic) {
account = new BankAccount();
account.setAccountNumber(accountNumber);
account.setAccountType(accountType);
account.setAccountOwnerName(accountName);
account.setAccountOwnerSSN(accountSSN);
account.setBalance(balance);
}
return account;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
A security researcher found 86 S3 buckets that could be accessed without authentication (CWE-306) and stored data unencrypted (CWE-
312). These buckets exposed over 1000 GB of data and 1.6 million files including physical addresses, phone numbers, tax documents,
pictures of driver's license IDs, etc. [REF-1296] [REF-1295]
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The sensitive information could have been protected by ensuring that the buckets did not have public read access, e.g., by enabling the
s3-account-level-public-access-blocks-periodic rule to Block Public Access. In addition, the data could have been encrypted at rest using
the appropriate S3 settings, e.g., by enabling server-side encryption using the s3-bucket-server-side-encryption-enabled setting. Other
settings are available to further prevent bucket data from being leaked. [REF-1297]3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 3/6CVE-2022-31260 Chain: a digital asset management program has an undisclosed backdoor in the legacy version of a
PHP script ( CWE-912 ) that could allow an unauthenticated user to export metadata ( CWE-306 )
CVE-2022-29951 TCP-based protocol in Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) has no authentication.
CVE-2022-29952 Condition Monitor firmware uses a protocol that does not require authentication.
CVE-2022-30276 SCADA-based protocol for bridging W AN and LAN traf fic has no authentication.
CVE-2022-30313 Safety Instrumented System uses proprietary TCP protocols with no authentication.
CVE-2022-30317 Distributed Control System (DCS) uses a protocol that has no authentication.
CVE-2021-21972 Chain: Cloud computing virtualization platform does not require authentication for upload of a tar format
file (CWE-306 ), then uses .. path traversal sequences ( CWE-23 ) in the file to access unexpected files,
as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-10263 Bluetooth speaker does not require authentication for the debug functionality on the UAR T port,
allowing root shell access
CVE-2021-23147 WiFi router does not require authentication for its UAR T port, allowing adversaries with physical access
to execute commands as root
CVE-2021-37415 IT management product does not perform authentication for some REST API requests, as exploited in
the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-13927 Default setting in workflow management product allows all API requests without authentication, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2002-1810 MFV. Access TFTP server without authentication and obtain configuration file with sensitive plaintext
information.
CVE-2008-6827 Agent software running at privileges does not authenticate incoming requests over an unprotected
channel, allowing a Shatter" attack.
CVE-2004-0213 Product enforces restrictions through a GUI but not through privileged APIs.
CVE-2020-15483 monitor device allows access to physical UAR T debug port without authentication
CVE-2019-9201 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) does not have an authentication feature on its communication
protocols.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Divide the software into anonymous, normal, privileged, and administrative areas. Identify which of these areas require a proven
user identity , and use a centralized authentication capability .
Identify all potential communication channels, or other means of interaction with the software, to ensure that all channels are
appropriately protected. Developers sometimes perform authentication at the primary channel, but open up a secondary channel
that is assumed to be private. For example, a login mechanism may be listening on one network port, but after successful
authentication, it may open up a second port where it waits for the connection, but avoids authentication because it assumes
that only the authenticated party will connect to the port.
In general, if the software or protocol allows a single session or user state to persist across multiple connections or channels,
authentication and appropriate credential management need to be used throughout.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Where possible, avoid implementing custom authentication routines and consider using authentication capabilities as provided
by the surrounding framework, operating system, or environment. These may make it easier to provide a clear separation
between authentication tasks and authorization tasks.
In environments such as the W orld Wide W eb, the line between authentication and authorization is sometimes blurred. If custom
authentication routines are required instead of those provided by the server , then these routines must be applied to every single
page, since these pages could be requested directly .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, consider using libraries with authentication capabilities such as OpenSSL or the ESAPI Authenticator [ REF-45 ].
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration; Operation
When storing data in the cloud (e.g., S3 buckets, Azure blobs, Google Cloud Storage, etc.), use the provider's controls to require
strong authentication for users who should be allowed to access the data [ REF-1297 ] [REF-1298 ] [REF-1302 ].
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of custom authentication mechanisms.3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 4/6Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis is useful for detecting commonly-used idioms for authentication. A tool may be able to analyze related
configuration files, such as .htaccess in Apache web servers, or detect the usage of commonly-used authentication libraries.
Generally , automated static analysis tools have dif ficulty detecting custom authentication schemes. In addition, the software's
design may include some functionality that is accessible to any user and does not require an established identity; an automated
technique that detects the absence of authentication may report false positives.
Effectiveness: Limited
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 5/6
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 812 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 952 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Authentication
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER No Authentication for Critical Function
Software Fault Patterns SFP31 Missing authentication
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SR-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-12 Choosing Message Identifier
CAPEC-166 Force the System to Reset V alues
CAPEC-216 Communication Channel Manipulation
CAPEC-36 Using Unpublished Interfaces or Functionality
CAPEC-62 Cross Site Request Forgery
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Authentication," Page 36. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-257] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 19 - Missing Authentication for Critical Function". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-02-23. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-19-missing-authentication-for-critical-function/ >. URL validated: 2023-
04-07 .
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1295] WizCase. "Over 80 US Municipalities' Sensitive Information, Including Resident's Personal Data, Left V ulnerable in
Massive Data Breach". 2021-07-20. < https://www .wizcase.com/blog/us-municipality-breach-report/ >.
[REF-1296] Jonathan Greig. "1,000 GB of local government data exposed by Massachusetts software company". 2021-07-22.
.
[REF-1297] Amazon. "A WS Foundational Security Best Practices controls". 2022.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/306.html 6/6[REF-1298] Microsoft. "Authentication and authorization in Azure App Service and Azure Functions". 2021-11-23.
. URL validated: 2022-10-11 .
[REF-1302] Google Cloud. "Authentication and authorization use cases". 2022-10-11.
. URL validated: 2022-10-11 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names