3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/259.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password
Weakness ID: 259
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains a hard-coded password, which it uses for its own inbound authentication or for outbound communication to
external components.
 Extended Description
A hard-coded password typically leads to a significant authentication failure that can be dif ficult for the system administrator to detect.
Once detected, it can be dif ficult to fix, so the administrator may be forced into disabling the product entirely . There are two main
variations:
Inbound: the product contains an authentication mechanism that checks for a hard-coded password.
Outbound: the product connects to another system or component, and it contains hard-coded password for connecting to that
component.
In the Inbound variant, a default administration account is created, and a simple password is hard-coded into the product and
associated with that account. This hard-coded password is the same for each installation of the product, and it usually cannot be
changed or disabled by system administrators without manually modifying the program, or otherwise patching the product. If the
password is ever discovered or published (a common occurrence on the Internet), then anybody with knowledge of this password can
access the product. Finally , since all installations of the product will have the same password, even across dif ferent organizations, this
enables massive attacks such as worms to take place.
The Outbound variant applies to front-end systems that authenticate with a back-end service. The back-end service may require a
fixed password which can be easily discovered. The programmer may simply hard-code those back-end credentials into the front-end
product. Any user of that program may be able to extract the password. Client-side systems with hard-coded passwords pose even
more of a threat, since the extraction of a password from a binary is usually very simple.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
PeerOf 321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
PeerOf 257 Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format
CanFollow 656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If hard-coded passwords are used, it is almost certain that malicious users will gain access through
the account in question.
 Likelihood Of ExploitAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/259.html 2/5High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses a hard-coded password to connect to a database:
This is an example of an external hard-coded password on the client-side of a connection. This code will run successfully , but anyone
who has access to it will have access to the password. Once the program has shipped, there is no going back from the database user
"scott" with a password of "tiger" unless the program is patched. A devious employee with access to this information can use it to
break into the system. Even worse, if attackers have access to the bytecode for application, they can use the javap -c command to
access the disassembled code, which will contain the values of the passwords used. The result of this operation might look something
like the following for the example above:
Example 2
The following code is an example of an internal hard-coded password in the back-end:
Every instance of this program can be placed into diagnostic mode with the same password. Even worse is the fact that if this
program is distributed as a binary-only distribution, it is very dif ficult to change that password or disable this "functionality ."
Example 3
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
DriverManager.getConnection(url, "scott", "tiger");
...
(attack code) 
javap -c ConnMngr.class
22: ldc #36; //String jdbc:mysql://ixne.com/rxsql
24: ldc #38; //String scott
26: ldc #17; //String tiger
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(password, "Mew!")) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0)
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (!password.equals("Mew!")) {
return(0)
}
//Diagnostic Mode
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...


3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/259.html 3/5Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
Example 4
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used hard-coded credentials in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29964 Distributed Control System (DCS) has hard-coded passwords for local shell access
CVE-2021-37555 Telnet service for IoT feeder for dogs and cats has hard-coded password [ REF-1288 ]
CVE-2021-35033 Firmware for a WiFi router uses a hard-coded password for a BusyBox shell, allowing bypass of
authentication through the UAR T port
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
For outbound authentication: store passwords outside of the code in a strongly-protected, encrypted configuration file or
database that is protected from access by all outsiders, including other local users on the same system. Properly protect the key
(CWE-320 ). If you cannot use encryption to protect the file, then make sure that the permissions are as restrictive as possible.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For inbound authentication: Rather than hard-code a default username and password for first time logins, utilize a "first login"
mode that requires the user to enter a unique strong password.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Perform access control checks and limit which entities can access the feature that requires the hard-coded password. For
example, a feature might only be enabled through the system console instead of through a network connection.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For inbound authentication: apply strong one-way hashes to your passwords and store those hashes in a configuration file or
database with appropriate access control. That way , theft of the file/database still requires the attacker to try to crack the
password. When receiving an incoming password during authentication, take the hash of the password and compare it to the
hash that you have saved.
Use randomly assigned salts for each separate hash that you generate. This increases the amount of computation that an
attacker needs to conduct a brute-force attack, possibly limiting the ef fectiveness of the rainbow table method.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For front-end to back-end connections: Three solutions are possible, although none are complete.
The first suggestion involves the use of generated passwords which are changed automatically and must be entered at given
time intervals by a system administrator . These passwords will be held in memory and only be valid for the time intervals.
Next, the passwords used should be limited at the back end to only performing actions valid for the front end, as opposed to
having full access.
Finally , the messages sent should be tagged and checksummed with time sensitive values so as to prevent replay style
attacks.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/259.html 4/5Attach the monitor to the process and perform a login. Using disassembled code, look at the associated instructions and see if
any of them appear to be comparing the input to a fixed string or value.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 950 SFP Secondary Cluster: Hardcoded Sensitive Data
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry could be split into multiple variants: an inbound variant (as seen in the second demonstrative example) and an outbound
variant (as seen in the first demonstrative example). These variants are likely to have dif ferent consequences, detectability , etc.
More importantly , from a vulnerability theory perspective, they could be characterized as dif ferent behaviors.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Password Management: Hard-Coded Password
CLASP Use of hard-coded password
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC03-J Never hard code sensitive information
Software Fault Patterns SFP33 Hardcoded sensitive data
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1288] Julia Lokrantz. "Ethical hacking of a Smart Automatic Feed Dispenser". 2021-06-07. < http://kth.diva-
portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1561552/FULL TEXT01.pdf >.
[REF-1304] ICS-CER T. "ICS Alert (ICS-ALER T-13-164-01): Medical Devices Hard-Coded Passwords". 2013-06-13.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/259.html 5/5
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names