3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-469: Use of Pointer Subtraction to Determine Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/469.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-469: Use of Pointer Subtraction to Determine Size
Weakness ID: 469
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product subtracts one pointer from another in order to determine size, but this calculation can be incorrect if the pointers do not
exist in the same memory chunk.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume
Identity
There is the potential for arbitrary code execution with privileges of the vulnerable program.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example contains the method size that is used to determine the number of nodes in a linked list. The method is passed
a pointer to the head of the linked list.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
struct node {
int data;
struct node\* next;
};
// Returns the number of nodes in a linked list from
// the given pointer to the head of the list.
int size(struct node\* head) {
struct node\* current = head;
struct node\* tail;
while (current != NULL) {
tail = current;
current = current->next;
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-469: Use of Pointer Subtraction to Determine Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/469.html 2/3However , the method creates a pointer that points to the end of the list and uses pointer subtraction to determine the number of nodes
in the list by subtracting the tail pointer from the head pointer . There no guarantee that the pointers exist in the same memory area,
therefore using pointer subtraction in this way could return incorrect results and allow other unintended behavior . In this example a
counter should be used to determine the number of nodes in the list, as shown in the following code.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Save an index variable. This is the recommended solution. Rather than subtract pointers from one another , use an index
variable of the same size as the pointers in question. Use this variable to "walk" from one pointer to the other and calculate the
difference. Always validate this number .
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 971 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Pointer Use
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
}
return tail - head;
}
// other methods for manipulating the list
...
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
int size(struct node\* head) {
struct node\* current = head;
int count = 0;
while (current != NULL) {
count++;
current = current->next;
}
return count;
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-469: Use of Pointer Subtraction to Determine Size (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/469.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Improper pointer subtraction
CER T C Secure Coding ARR36-C Exact Do not subtract or compare two pointers that do not refer to the same
array
Software Fault Patterns SFP7 Faulty Pointer Use
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names