3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-591: Sensitive Data Storage in Improperly Locked Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/591.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-591: Sensitive Data Storage in Improperly Locked Memory
Weakness ID: 591
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive data in memory that is not locked, or that has been incorrectly locked, which might cause the memory to
be written to swap files on disk by the virtual memory manager . This can make the data more accessible to external actors.
 Extended Description
On Windows systems the V irtualLock function can lock a page of memory to ensure that it will remain present in memory and not be
swapped to disk. However , on older versions of Windows, such as 95, 98, or Me, the V irtualLock() function is only a stub and provides
no protection. On POSIX systems the mlock() call ensures that a page will stay resident in memory but does not guarantee that the
page will not appear in the swap. Therefore, it is unsuitable for use as a protection mechanism for sensitive data. Some platforms, in
particular Linux, do make the guarantee that the page will not be swapped, but this is non-standard and is not portable. Calls to
mlock() also require supervisor privilege. Return values for both of these calls must be checked to ensure that the lock operation was
actually successful.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 413 Improper Resource Locking
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Memory
Sensitive data that is written to a swap file may be exposed.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify data that needs to be protected from swapping and choose platform-appropriate protection mechanisms.
Phase: Implementation
Check return values to ensure locking operations are successful.
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-591: Sensitive Data Storage in Improperly Locked Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/591.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More Specific Insecure Storage
CER T C Secure Coding MEM06-C Ensure that sensitive data is not written out to disk
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-12-15
(CWE Draft 5, 2006-12-15)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names