3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-525: Use of Web Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/525.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-525: Use of W eb Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 525
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application does not use an appropriate caching policy that specifies the extent to which each web page and associated
form fields should be cached.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 524 Use of Cache Containing Sensitive Information
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Browsers often store information in a client-side cache, which can leave behind sensitive information
for other users to find and exploit, such as passwords or credit card numbers. The locations at most
risk include public terminals, such as those in libraries and Internet cafes.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Protect information stored in cache.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Use a restrictive caching policy for forms and web pages that potentially contain sensitive information.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not store unnecessarily sensitive information in the cache.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider using encryption in the cache.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 966 SFP Secondary Cluster: Other Exposures
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-525: Use of Web Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/525.html 2/2This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A2 CWE More Specific Broken Access Control
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names