3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/69.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-69: Improper Handling of W indows ::DA TA Alternate Data Stream
Weakness ID: 69
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly prevent access to, or detect usage of, alternate data streams (ADS).
 Extended Description
An attacker can use an ADS to hide information about a file (e.g. size, the name of the process) from a system or file browser tools
such as Windows Explorer and 'dir' at the command line utility . Alternately , the attacker might be able to bypass intended access
restrictions for the associated data fork.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 66 Improper Handling of File Names that Identify V irtual Resources
 Background Details
Alternate data streams (ADS) were first implemented in the Windows NT operating system to provide compatibility between NTFS
and the Macintosh Hierarchical File System (HFS). In HFS, data and resource forks are used to store information about a file. The
data fork provides information about the contents of the file while the resource fork stores metadata such as file type.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Hide Activities; Other
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-0278 In IIS, remote attackers can obtain source code for ASP files by appending "::$DA TA" to the URL.
CVE-2000-0927 Product does not properly record file sizes if they are stored in alternative data streams, which allows
users to bypass quota restrictions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Software tools are capable of finding ADSs on your system.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the source code correctly parses the filename to read or write to the correct stream.
 Affected Resources
System ProcessAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-69: Improper Handling of Windows ::DATA Alternate Data Stream (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/69.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 904 SFP Primary Cluster: Malware
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
This and similar problems exist because the same resource can have multiple identifiers that dictate which behavior can be
performed on the resource.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Windows ::DA TA alternate data stream
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-168 Windows ::DA TA Alternate Data Stream
 References
[REF-562] Don Parker . "Windows NTFS Alternate Data Streams". 2005-02-16. < https://seclists.org/basics/2005/Feb/312 >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
