3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1341.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle
Weakness ID: 1341
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product attempts to close or release a resource or handle more than once, without any successful open between the close
operations.
 Extended Description
Code typically requires "opening" handles or references to resources such as memory , files, devices, socket connections, services,
etc. When the code is finished with using the resource, it is typically expected to "close" or "release" the resource, which indicates to
the environment (such as the OS) that the resource can be re-assigned or reused by unrelated processes or actors - or in some
cases, within the same process. API functions or other abstractions are often used to perform this release, such as free() or delete()
within C/C++, or file-handle close() operations that are used in many languages.
Unfortunately , the implementation or design of such APIs might expect the developer to be responsible for ensuring that such APIs are
only called once per release of the resource. If the developer attempts to release the same resource/handle more than once, then the
API's expectations are not met, resulting in undefined and/or insecure behavior . This could lead to consequences such as memory
corruption, data corruption, execution path corruption, or other consequences.
Note that while the implementation for most (if not all) resource reservation allocations involve a unique identifier/pointer/symbolic
reference, then if this identifier is reused, checking the identifier for resource closure may result in a false state of openness and
closing of the wrong resource. For this reason, reuse of identifiers is discouraged.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 675 Multiple Operations on Resource in Single-Operation Context
ParentOf 415 Double Free
CanPrecede 672 Operation on a Resource after Expiration or Release
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
Rust (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact LikelihoodAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1341.html 2/5Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Medium3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1341.html 3/5
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example attempts to close a file twice. In some cases, the C library fclose() function will catch the error and return an error code.
In other implementations, a double-free ( CWE-415 ) occurs, causing the program to fault. Note that the examples presented here are
simplistic, and double fclose() calls will frequently be spread around a program, making them more dif ficult to find during code
reviews.
There are multiple possible fixes. This fix only has one call to fclose(), which is typically the preferred handling of this problem - but
this simplistic method is not always possible.
This fix uses a flag to call fclose() only once. Note that this flag is explicit. The variable "f" could also have been used as it will be
either NULL if the file is not able to be opened or a valid pointer if the file was successfully opened. If "f" is replacing "f\_flg" then "f"
would need to be set to NULL after the first fclose() call so the second fclose call would never be executed.
Example 2
The following code shows a simple example of a double free vulnerability .(bad code) Example Language: C 
char b[2000];
FILE \*f = fopen("dbl\_cls.c", "r");
if (f)
{
b[0] = 0;
fread(b, 1, sizeof(b) - 1, f);
printf("%s\n'", b);
int r1 = fclose(f);
printf("\n-----------------\n1 close done '%d'\n", r1);
int r2 = fclose(f); // Double close
printf("2 close done '%d'\n", r2);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
char b[2000];
FILE \*f = fopen("dbl\_cls.c", "r");
if (f)
{
b[0] = 0;
fread(b, 1, sizeof(b) - 1, f);
printf("%s\n'", b);
int r = fclose(f);
printf("\n-----------------\n1 close done '%d'\n", r);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
char b[2000];
int f\_flg = 0;
FILE \*f = fopen("dbl\_cls.c", "r");
if (f)
{
f\_flg = 1;
b[0] = 0;
fread(b, 1, sizeof(b) - 1, f);
printf("%s\n'", b);
if (f\_flg)
{
int r1 = fclose(f);
f\_flg = 0;
printf("\n-----------------\n1 close done '%d'\n", r1);
}
if (f\_flg)
{
int r2 = fclose(f); // Double close
f\_flg = 0;
printf("2 close done '%d'\n", r2);
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1341.html 4/5Double free vulnerabilities have two common (and sometimes overlapping) causes:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for freeing the memory
Although some double free vulnerabilities are not much more complicated than this example, most are spread out across hundreds of
lines of code or even dif ferent files. Programmers seem particularly susceptible to freeing global variables more than once.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-13351 file descriptor double close can cause the wrong file to be associated with a file descriptor .
CVE-2006-5051 Chain: Signal handler contains too much functionality ( CWE-828 ), introducing a race condition that
leads to a double free ( CWE-415 ).
CVE-2004-0772 Double free resultant from certain error conditions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Change the code's logic so that the resource is only closed once. This might require simplifying or refactoring. This fix can be
simple to do in small code blocks, but more dif ficult when multiple closes are buried within complex conditionals.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Refactoring
It can be ef fective to implement a flag that is (1) set when the resource is opened, (2) cleared when it is closed, and (3) checked
before closing. This approach can be useful when there are disparate cases in which closes must be performed. However , flag-
tracking can increase code complexity and requires diligent compliance by the programmer .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Refactoring
When closing a resource, set the resource's associated variable to NULL or equivalent value for the given language. Some APIs
will ignore this null value without causing errors. For other APIs, this can lead to application crashes or exceptions, which may
still be preferable to corrupting an unintended resource such as memory or data.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
For commonly-used APIs and resource types, automated tools often have signatures that can spot this issue.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Some compiler instrumentation tools such as AddressSanitizer (ASan) can indirectly detect some instances of this weakness.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
char\* ptr = (char\*)malloc (SIZE);
...
if (abrt) {
free(ptr);
}
...
free(ptr);3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1341: Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1341.html 5/5The terms related to "release" may vary depending on the type of resource, programming language, specification, or framework.
"Close" has been used synonymously for the release of resources like file descriptors and file handles. "Return" is sometimes used
instead of Release. "Free" is typically used when releasing memory or buf fers back into the system for reuse.
 References
[REF-1198] "close - Perldoc Browser". < https://perldoc.perl.org/functions/close >.
[REF-1199] "io - Core tools for working with streams — Python 3.9.7 documentation". 2021-09-02.
.
[REF-1200] "FileOutputStream (Java Platform SE 7 )". 2020.
.
[REF-1201] "FileOutputStream (Java SE 11 & JDK 11 )". 2021.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-09-07
(CWE 4.6, 2021-10-28)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications