3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1385: Missing Origin Validation in WebSockets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1385.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1385: Missing Origin V alidation in W ebSockets
Weakness ID: 1385
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a W ebSocket, but it does not properly verify that the source of data or communication is valid.
 Extended Description
WebSockets provide a bi-directional low latency communication (near real-time) between a client and a server . WebSockets are
different than HTTP in that the connections are long-lived, as the channel will remain open until the client or the server is ready to
send the message, whereas in HTTP , once the response occurs (which typically happens immediately), the transaction completes.
A WebSocket can leverage the existing HTTP protocol over ports 80 and 443, but it is not limited to HTTP . WebSockets can make
cross-origin requests that are not restricted by browser-based protection mechanisms such as the Same Origin Policy (SOP) or
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS). Without explicit origin validation, this makes CSRF attacks more powerful.
 Alternate T erms
Cross-Site W ebSocket hijacking (CSWSH): this term is used for attacks that exploit this weakness
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 346 Origin V alidation Error
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read
Application Data; Modify Application Data; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The consequences will vary depending on the nature of the functionality that is vulnerable to
CSRF . An attacker could ef fectively perform any operations as the victim. If the victim is an
administrator or privileged user , the consequences may include obtaining complete control over
the web application - deleting or stealing data, uninstalling the product, or using it to launch other
attacks against all of the product's users. Because the attacker has the identity of the victim, the
scope of the CSRF is limited only by the victim's privileges.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-25095 web console for SIEM product does not check Origin header , allowing Cross Site W ebSocket Hijacking
(CSWH)
CVE-2018-6651 Chain: gaming client attempts to validate the Origin header , but only uses a substring, allowing Cross-
Site W ebSocket hijacking by forcing requests from an origin whose hostname is a substring of the valid
origin.
CVE-2018-14730 WebSocket server does not check the origin of requests, allowing attackers to steal developer's code
using a ws://127.0.0.1:3123/ connection.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1385: Missing Origin Validation in WebSockets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1385.html 2/3CVE-2018-14731 WebSocket server does not check the origin of requests, allowing attackers to steal developer's code
using a ws://127.0.0.1/ connection to a randomized port number .
CVE-2018-14732 WebSocket server does not check the origin of requests, allowing attackers to steal developer's code
using a ws://127.0.0.1:8080/ connection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Enable CORS-like access restrictions by verifying the 'Origin' header during the W ebSocket handshake.
Phase: Implementation
Use a randomized CSRF token to verify requests.
Phase: Implementation
Use TLS to securely communicate using 'wss' (W ebSocket Secure) instead of 'ws'.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Require user authentication prior to the W ebSocket connection being established. For example, the WS library in Node has a
'verifyClient' function.
Phase: Implementation
Leverage rate limiting to prevent against DoS. Use of the leaky bucket algorithm can help with this.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Implementation
Use a library that provides restriction of the payload size. For example, WS library for Node includes 'maxPayloadoption' that
can be set.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Implementation
Treat data/input as untrusted in both directions and apply the same data/input sanitization as XSS, SQLi, etc.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1257] Christian Schneider . "Cross-Site W ebSocket Hijacking (CSWSH)". 2013-09-01. < https://christian-
schneider .net/CrossSiteW ebSocketHijacking.html >.
[REF-1251] Drew Branch. "W ebSockets not Bound by SOP and CORS? Does this mean...". 2018-06-06.
.
[REF-1252] Mehul Mohan. "How to secure your W ebSocket connections". 2018-11-12.
.
[REF-1256] V ickie Li. "Cross-Site W ebSocket Hijacking (CSWSH)". 2019-11-27. < https://medium.com/swlh/hacking-websocket-
25d3cba6a4b9 >.
[REF-1253] PortSwigger . "Testing for W ebSockets security vulnerabilities". Using cross-site W ebSockets to exploit vulnerabilities.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-05-28
(CWE 4.7, 2022-04-28)Anonymous External Contributor
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1385: Missing Origin Validation in WebSockets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1385.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Modifications