3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1058: Invokable Control Element in Multi-Thread Context with non-Final Static Storable or Mem…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1058.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1058: Invokable Control Element in Multi-Thread Context with non-Final Static
Storable or Member Element
Weakness ID: 1058
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code contains a function or method that operates in a multi-threaded environment but owns an unsafe non-final static storable or
member data element.
 Extended Description
This issue can prevent the product from running reliably . If the relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this reliability problem
might introduce a vulnerability .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 662 Improper Synchronization
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Reliability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1058: Invokable Control Element in Multi-Thread Context with non-Final Static Storable or Mem…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1058.html 2/2OMG ASCRM ASCRM-RLB-
11
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-RLB-11. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications