3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1286: Improper Validation of Syntactic Correctness of Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1286.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1286: Improper V alidation of Syntactic Correctness of Input
Weakness ID: 1286
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input that is expected to be well-formed - i.e., to comply with a certain syntax - but it does not validate or
incorrectly validates that the input complies with the syntax.
 Extended Description
Often, complex inputs are expected to follow a particular syntax, which is either assumed by the input itself, or declared within
metadata such as headers. The syntax could be for data exchange formats, markup languages, or even programming languages.
When untrusted input is not properly validated for the expected syntax, attackers could cause parsing failures, trigger unexpected
errors, or expose latent vulnerabilities that might not be directly exploitable if the input had conformed to the syntax.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 20 Improper Input V alidation
ParentOf 112 Missing XML Validation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code loads and parses an XML file.
The XML file is loaded without validating it against a known XML Schema or DTD.
 Observed ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
// Read DOM
try {
...
DocumentBuilderFactory factory = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
factory.setValidating( false );
....
c\_dom = factory.newDocumentBuilder().parse( xmlFile );
} catch(Exception ex) {
...
}3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1286: Improper Validation of Syntactic Correctness of Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1286.html 2/2Reference Description
CVE-2016-4029 Chain: incorrect validation of intended decimal-based IP address format ( CWE-1286 ) enables parsing
of octal or hexadecimal formats ( CWE-1389 ), allowing bypass of an SSRF protection mechanism
(CWE-918 ).
CVE-2007-5893 HTTP request with missing protocol version number leads to crash
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-66 SQL Injection
CAPEC-676 NoSQL Injection
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-24
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
