3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-363: Race Condition Enabling Link Following (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/363.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-363: Race Condition Enabling Link Following
Weakness ID: 363
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product checks the status of a file or directory before accessing it, which produces a race condition in which the file can be
replaced with a link before the access is performed, causing the product to access the wrong file.
 Extended Description
While developers might expect that there is a very narrow time window between the time of check and time of use, there is still a race
condition. An attacker could cause the product to slow down (e.g. with memory consumption), causing the time window to become
larger . Alternately , in some situations, the attacker could win the race by performing a large number of attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 367 Time-of-check Time-of-use (T OCT OU) Race Condition
CanPrecede 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code prints the contents of a file if a user has permission.
This code attempts to resolve symbolic links before checking the file and printing its contents. However , an attacker may be able to
change the file from a real file to a symbolic link between the calls to is\_link() and file\_get\_contents(), allowing the reading of arbitraryAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function readFile($filename){
$user = getCurrentUser();
//resolve file if its a symbolic link
if(is\_link($filename)){
$filename = readlink($filename);
}
if(fileowner($filename) == $user){
echo file\_get\_contents($realFile);
return;
}
else{
echo 'Access denied';
return false;
}
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-363: Race Condition Enabling Link Following (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/363.html 2/2files. Note that this code fails to log the attempted access ( CWE-778 ).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 988 SFP Secondary Cluster: Race Condition Window
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is already covered by the "Link Following" weakness ( CWE-59 ). It is included here because so many people associate race
conditions with link problems; however , not all link following issues involve race conditions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Race condition enabling link following
CER T C Secure Coding POS35-C Exact Avoid race conditions while checking for the existence of a symbolic link
Software Fault Patterns SFP20 Race Condition Window
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Race
Conditions", Page 526. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
