3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-841: Improper Enforcement of Behavioral Workﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/841.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-841: Improper Enforcement of Behavioral W orkflow
Weakness ID: 841
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product supports a session in which more than one behavior must be performed by an actor , but it does not properly ensure that
the actor performs the behaviors in the required sequence.
 Extended Description
By performing actions in an unexpected order , or by omitting steps, an attacker could manipulate the business logic of the product or
cause it to enter an invalid state. In some cases, this can also expose resultant weaknesses.
For example, a file-sharing protocol might require that an actor perform separate steps to provide a username, then a password,
before being able to transfer files. If the file-sharing server accepts a password command followed by a transfer command, without
any username being provided, the product might still perform the transfer .
Note that this is dif ferent than CWE-696 , which focuses on when the product performs actions in the wrong sequence; this entry is
closely related, but it is focused on ensuring that the actor performs actions in the correct sequence.
Workflow-related behaviors include:
Steps are performed in the expected order .
Required steps are not omitted.
Steps are not interrupted.
Steps are performed in a timely fashion.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1217 User Session Errors
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
An attacker could cause the product to skip critical steps or perform them in the wrong order , bypassing its
intended business logic. This can sometimes have security implications.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code is part of an FTP server and deals with various commands that could be sent by a user . It is intended that a user must
successfully login before performing any other action such as retrieving or listing files.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def dispatchCommand(command, user, args):
if command == 'Login':
liU ( )3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-841: Improper Enforcement of Behavioral Workﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/841.html 2/3The server correctly avoids sending files to a user that isn't logged in and doesn't own the file. However , the server will incorrectly list
the files in any directory without confirming the command came from an authenticated user , and that the user is authorized to see the
directory's contents.
Here is a fixed version of the above example:
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2011-0348 Bypass of access/billing restrictions by sending traf fic to an unrestricted destination before sending to a
restricted destination.
CVE-2007-3012 Attacker can access portions of a restricted page by canceling out of a dialog.
CVE-2009-5056 Ticket-tracking system does not enforce a permission setting.
CVE-2004-2164 Shopping cart does not close a database connection when user restores a previous order , leading to
connection exhaustion.
CVE-2003-0777 Chain: product does not properly handle dropped connections, leading to missing NULL terminator
(CWE-170 ) and segmentation fault.
CVE-2005-3327 Chain: Authentication bypass by skipping the first startup step as required by the protocol.
CVE-2004-0829 Chain: File server crashes when sent a "find next" request without an initial "find first."
CVE-2010-2620 FTP server allows remote attackers to bypass authentication by sending (1) LIST , (2) RETR, (3) ST OR,
or other commands without performing the required login steps first.
CVE-2005-3296 FTP server allows remote attackers to list arbitrary directories as root by running the LIST command
before logging in.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
loginUser(args)
return
# user has requested a file
if command == 'Retrieve\_file':
if authenticated(user) and ownsFile(user,args):
sendFile(args)
return
if command == 'List\_files':
listFiles(args)
return
...
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def dispatchCommand(command, user, args):
...
if command == 'List\_files':
if authenticated(user) and ownsDirectory(user,args):
listFiles(args)
return
...3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-841: Improper Enforcement of Behavioral Workﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/841.html 3/3This weakness is typically associated with business logic flaws, except when it produces resultant weaknesses.
The classification of business logic flaws has been under-studied, although exploitation of business flaws frequently happens in real-
world systems, and many applied vulnerability researchers investigate them. The greatest focus is in web applications. There is
debate within the community about whether these problems represent particularly new concepts, or if they are variations of well-
known principles.
Many business logic flaws appear to be oriented toward business processes, application flows, and sequences of behaviors, which
are not as well-represented in CWE as weaknesses related to input validation, memory management, etc.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 40 Insuf ficient Process V alidation
 References
[REF-795] Jeremiah Grossman. "Business Logic Flaws and Yahoo Games". 2006-12-08.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-796] Jeremiah Grossman. "Seven Business Logic Flaws That Put Your W ebsite At Risk". 2007-10.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-797] WhiteHat Security . "Business Logic Flaws".
. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-806] W ASC. "Insuf ficient Process V alidation". < http://projects.webappsec.org/w/page/13246943/Insuf ficient-Process-
Validation >.
[REF-799] Rafal Los and Prajakta Jagdale. "Defying Logic: Theory , Design, and Implementation of Complex Systems for Testing
Application Logic". 2011. < https://www .slideshare.net/RafalLos/defying-logic-business-logic-testing-with-automation >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-667] Rafal Los. "Real-Life Example of a 'Business Logic Defect' (Screen Shots!)". 2011.
.
[REF-801] V iktoria Felmetsger , Ludovico Cavedon, Christopher Kruegel and Giovanni V igna. "T oward Automated Detection of
Logic V ulnerabilities in W eb Applications". USENIX Security Symposium 2010. 2010-08.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-802] Faisal Nabi. "Designing a Framework Method for Secure Business Application Logic Integrity in e-Commerce
Systems". pages 29 - 41. International Journal of Network Security , Vol.12, No.1. 2011. < http://ijns.femto.com.tw/contents/ijns-
v12-n1/ijns-2011-v12-n1-p29-41.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-03-24
(CWE 1.12, 2011-03-30)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-11-11 Anonymous External Contributor
Reported an error in a demonstrative example
 Modifications