3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-785: Use of Path Manipulation Function without Maximum-sized Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/785.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-785: Use of Path Manipulation Function without Maximum-sized Buffer
Weakness ID: 785
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product invokes a function for normalizing paths or file names, but it provides an output buf fer that is smaller than the maximum
possible size, such as P ATH\_MAX.
 Extended Description
Passing an inadequately-sized output buf fer to a path manipulation function can result in a buf fer overflow . Such functions include
realpath(), readlink(), PathAppend(), and others.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
ChildOf 676 Use of Potentially Dangerous Function
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Background Details
Windows provides a large number of utility functions that manipulate buf fers containing filenames. In most cases, the result is
returned in a buf fer that is passed in as input. (Usually the filename is modified in place.) Most functions require the buf fer to be at
least MAX\_P ATH bytes in length, but you should check the documentation for each function individually . If the buf fer is not large
enough to store the result of the manipulation, a buf fer overflow can occur .
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example the function creates a directory named "output\" in the current directory and returns a heap-allocated copy of
its name.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*createOutputDirectory(char \*name) {
char outputDirectoryName[128];
if (getCurrentDirectory(128, outputDirectoryName) == 0) {
return null;
}
if (!PathAppend(outputDirectoryName, "output")) {
return null;
}
if (!PathAppend(outputDirectoryName, name)) {
return null;
}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-785: Use of Path Manipulation Function without Maximum-sized Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/785.html 2/2For most values of the current directory and the name parameter , this function will work properly . However , if the name parameter is
particularly long, then the second call to PathAppend() could overflow the outputDirectoryName buf fer, which is smaller than
MAX\_P ATH bytes.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Always specify output buf fers large enough to handle the maximum-size possible result from path manipulation functions.
 Affected Resources
Memory
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 972 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty String Expansion
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is at a much lower level of abstraction than most entries because it is function-specific. It also has significant overlap with
other entries that can vary depending on the perspective. For example, incorrect usage could trigger either a stack-based overflow
(CWE-121 ) or a heap-based overflow ( CWE-122 ). The CWE team has not decided how to handle such entries.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Often Misused: File System
Software Fault Patterns SFP9 Faulty String Expansion
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-27
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
Note: this date reflects when the entry was first published. Draft versions of this entry were provided to
members of the CWE community and modified before initial publication.
 Modifications
}
if (SHCreateDirectoryEx(NULL, outputDirectoryName, NULL) != ERROR\_SUCCESS) {
return null;
}
return StrDup(outputDirectoryName);
}