3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-210: Self-generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/210.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-210: Self-generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 210
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product identifies an error condition and creates its own diagnostic or error messages that contain sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 209 Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses custom configuration files for each user in the application. It checks to see if the file exists on the system
before attempting to open and use the file. If the configuration file does not exist, then an error is generated, and the application exits.
If this code is running on a server , such as a web application, then the person making the request should not know what the full
pathname of the configuration directory is. By submitting a username that is not associated with a configuration file, an attacker could
get this pathname from the error message. It could then be used to exploit path traversal, symbolic link following, or other problems
that may exist elsewhere in the application.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1745 Infoleak of sensitive information in error message (physical access required).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$uname = GetUserInput("username");
# avoid CWE-22, CWE-78, others.
if ($uname !~ /^\w+$/)
{
ExitError("Bad hacker!") ;
}
$filename = "/home/myprog/config/" . $uname . ".txt";
if (!(-e $filename))
{
ExitError("Error: $filename does not exist");
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-210: Self-generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/210.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Product-Generated Error Message Infoleak
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 12: Information Leakage."
Page 191. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Overly V erbose
Error Messages", Page 75. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
