3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1300: (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1300.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1300: Improper Protection of Physical Side Channels
Weakness ID: 1300
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device does not contain suf ficient protection mechanisms to prevent physical side channels from exposing sensitive information
due to patterns in physically observable phenomena such as variations in power consumption, electromagnetic emissions (EME), or
acoustic emissions.
 Extended Description
An adversary could monitor and measure physical phenomena to detect patterns and make inferences, even if it is not possible to
extract the information in the digital domain.
Physical side channels have been well-studied for decades in the context of breaking implementations of cryptographic algorithms or
other attacks against security features. These side channels may be easily observed by an adversary with physical access to the
device, or using a tool that is in close proximity . If the adversary can monitor hardware operation and correlate its data processing with
power , EME, and acoustic measurements, the adversary might be able to recover of secret keys and data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 203 Observable Discrepancy
ParentOf 1255 Comparison Logic is V ulnerable to Power Side-Channel Attacks
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
ChildOf 203 Observable Discrepancy
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a device that checks a passcode to unlock the screen.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) 3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1300: (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1300.html 2/5PIN numbers used to unlock a cell phone should not exhibit any characteristics about themselves. This creates a side channel. An
attacker could monitor the pulses using an oscilloscope or other method. Once the first character is correctly guessed (based on the
oscilloscope readings), they can then move to the next character , which is much more ef ficient than the brute force method of
guessing every possible sequence of characters.
Example 2
Consider the device vulnerability CVE-2021-3011, which af fects certain microcontrollers [ REF-1221 ]. The Google Titan Security Key
is used for two-factor authentication using cryptographic algorithms. The device uses an internal secret key for this purpose and
exchanges information based on this key for the authentication. If this internal secret key and the encryption algorithm were known to
an adversary , the key function could be duplicated, allowing the adversary to masquerade as the legitimate user .
Example 3
The code snippet provided here is part of the modular exponentiation module found in the HACK@DAC'21 Openpiton System-on-
Chip (SoC), specifically within the RSA peripheral [ REF-1368 ]. Modular exponentiation, denoted as "a^b mod n," is a crucial operation
in the RSA public/private key encryption. In RSA encryption, where 'c' represents ciphertext, 'm' stands for a message, and 'd'
corresponds to the private key , the decryption process is carried out using this modular exponentiation as follows: m = c^d mod n,
where 'n' is the result of multiplying two large prime numbers.
The vulnerable code shows a buggy implementation of binary exponentiation where it updates the result register (result\_reg) only
when the corresponding exponent bit (exponent\_reg[0]) is set to 1. However , when this exponent bit is 0, the output register is not
updated. It's important to note that this implementation introduces a physical power side-channel vulnerability within the RSA core.
This vulnerability could expose the private exponent to a determined physical attacker . Such exposure of the private exponent could
lead to a complete compromise of the private key .
To address mitigation requirements, the developer can develop the module by minimizing dependency on conditions, particularly
those reliant on secret keys. In situations where branching is unavoidable, developers can implement masking mechanisms to
obfuscate the power consumption patterns exhibited by the module (see good code example). Additionally , certain algorithms, such as
the Karatsuba algorithm, can be implemented as illustrative examples of side-channel resistant algorithms, as they necessitate only a
limited number of branch conditions [ REF-1369 ].As each character of the PIN number is entered, a correct character exhibits one current pulse shape while an incorrect character exhibits
a different current pulse shape.
(good code) 
Rather than comparing each character to the correct PIN value as it is entered, the device could accumulate the PIN in a register, and do
the comparison all at once at the end. Alternatively, the components for the comparison could be modified so that the current pulse shape
is the same regardless of the correctness of the entered character.
(bad code) 
The local method of extracting the secret key consists of plugging the key into a USB port and using electromagnetic (EM) sniffing tools
and computers.
(good code) 
Several solutions could have been considered by the manufacturer. For example, the manufacturer could shield the circuitry in the key or
add randomized delays, indirect calculations with random values involved, or randomly ordered calculations to make extraction much
more difficult or a combination of these techniques.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
module mod\_exp
...
`UPDATE: begin
if (exponent\_reg != 'd0) begin
if (exponent\_reg[0])
result\_reg <= result\_next;
base\_reg <= base\_next;
exponent\_reg <= exponent\_next;
state <= `UPDATE;
...
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
module mod\_exp
...
`UPDATE: begin
if (exponent\_reg != 'd0) begin
if (exponent\_reg[0]) begin
result\_reg <= result\_next;
end else begin
k < lt t3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1300: (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1300.html 3/5
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-35888 Power side-channels leak secret information from processor
CVE-2021-3011 electromagnetic-wave side-channel in security-related microcontrollers allows extraction of private key
CVE-2019-14353 Crypto hardware wallet's power consumption relates to total number of pixels illuminated, creating a
side channel in the USB connection that allows attackers to determine secrets displayed such as PIN
numbers and passwords
CVE-2020-27211 Chain: microcontroller system-on-chip contains uses a register value stored in flash to set product
protection state on the memory bus but does not contain protection against fault injection ( CWE-1319 ),
which leads to an incorrect initialization of the memory bus ( CWE-1419 ) leading the product to be in an
unprotected state.
CVE-2013-4576 message encryption software uses certain instruction sequences that allows RSA key extraction using
a chosen-ciphertext attack and acoustic cryptanalysis
CVE-2020-28368 virtualization product allows recovery of AES keys from the guest OS using a side channel attack
against a power/energy monitoring interface.
CVE-2019-18673 power consumption varies based on number of pixels being illuminated in a display , allowing reading of
secrets such as the PIN by using the USB interface to measure power consumption
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Apply blinding or masking techniques to implementations of cryptographic algorithms.
Phase: Implementation
Add shielding or tamper-resistant protections to the device to increase the dif ficulty of obtaining measurements of the side-
channel.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Perform a set of leakage detection tests such as the procedure outlined in the Test V ector Leakage Assessment (TVLA) test
requirements for AES [ REF-1230 ]. TVLA is the basis for the ISO standard 17825 [ REF-1229 ]. A separate methodology is
provided by [ REF-1228 ]. Note that sole reliance on this method might not yield expected results [ REF-1239 ] [REF-1240 ].
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Analysis
Post-silicon, perform full side-channel attacks (penetration testing) covering as many known leakage models as possible against
test code.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Analysis
Pre-silicon - while the aforementioned TVLA methods can be performed post-silicon, models of device power consumption or
other physical emanations can be built from information present at various stages of the hardware design process before
fabrication. TVLA or known side-channel attacks can be applied to these simulated traces and countermeasures applied before
tape-out. Academic research in this field includes [ REF-1231 ] [REF-1232 ] [REF-1233 ].
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Functional Areas
Power
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
mask\_reg <= result\_next;
end
base\_reg <= base\_next;
exponent\_reg <= exponent\_next;
state <= `UPDATE;
...
endmodule3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1300: (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1300.html 4/5
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-189 Black Box Reverse Engineering
CAPEC-699 Eavesdropping on a Monitor
 References
[REF-1117] Paul Kocher , Joshua Jaf fe and Benjamin Jun. "Introduction to dif ferential power analysis and related attacks". 1998.
.
[REF-1118] Dakshi Agrawal, Bruce Archambeault, Josyula R. Rao and Pankaj Rohatgi. "The EM Side-Channel(s)". 2007-08-24.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1119] Daniel Genkin, Adi Shamir and Eran Tromer . "RSA key extraction via low-bandwidth acoustic cryptanalysis". 2014-06-
13. < https://www .iacr.org/archive/crypto2014/86160149/86160149.pdf >.
[REF-1120] Colin O'Flynn. "Power Analysis for Cheapskates". 2013-01-24. < https://media.blackhat.com/eu-
13/briefings/OFlynn/bh-eu-13-for-cheapstakes-oflynn-wp.pdf >.
[REF-1055] Peter Gutmann. "Data Remanence in Semiconductor Devices". 10th USENIX Security Symposium. 2001-08.
.
[REF-1218] Graham Cluley . "This Black Box Can Brute Force Crack iPhone PIN Passcodes". The Mac Security Blog. 2015-03-16.
.
[REF-1221] V ictor Lomne and Thomas Roche. "A Side Journey to Titan". 2021-01-07.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1228] Gilbert Goodwill, Benjamin Jun, Josh Jaf fe and Pankaj Rohatgi. "A testing methodology for side-channel resistance
validation". 2011. < https://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/events/non-invasive-attack-testing-workshop/documents/08\_goodwill.pdf >.
[REF-1229] ISO/IEC. "ISO/IEC 17825:2016: Testing methods for the mitigation of non-invasive attack classes against
cryptographic modules". 2016. < https://www .iso.org/standard/60612.html >.
[REF-1230] Cryptography Research Inc.. "T est V ector Leakage Assessment (TVLA) Derived Test Requirements (DTR) with AES".
2015-08. < https://www .rambus.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/TVLA-DTR-with-AES.pdf >.
[REF-1231] Danilo Šijaˇci´, Josep Balasch, Bohan Yang, Santosh Ghosh and Ingrid V erbauwhede. "T owards ef ficient and
automated side-channel evaluations at design time". pp. 305-319. Journal of Cryptographic Engineering, 10(4). 2020.
.
[REF-1232] Amit Kumar , Cody Scarborough, Ali Yilmaz and Michael Orshansky . "Efficient simulation of EM side-channel attack
resilience". pp. 123-130. IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD). 2017.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1233] Yuan Yao, Tuna Tufan, Tarun Kathuria, Baris Ege, Ulkuhan Guler and Patrick Schaumont. "Pre-silicon Architecture
Correlation Analysis (P ACA): Identifying and Mitigating the Source of Side-channel Leakage at Gate-level". IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive. 2021-04-21. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2021/530.pdf >.
[REF-1234] Elisabeth Oswald, Thomas Popp and Stefan Mangard. "Power Analysis Attacks - Revealing the Secrets of Smart
Cards". 2007. < https://link.springer .com/book/10.1007/978-0-387-38162-6 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1235] David Oswald, Bastian Richter and Christof Paar . "Side-Channel Attacks on the Yubikey 2 One-T ime Password
Generator". 2013-06-14. < https://www .emsec.ruhr-uni-
bochum.de/media/crypto/veroef fentlichungen/2014/02/04/paper\_yubikey\_sca.pdf >.
[REF-1239] François-Xavier Standaert. "How (not) to Use W elch's T-test in Side-Channel Security Evaluations". IACR Cryptology
ePrint Archive. 2017-02-15. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2017/138.pdf >.
[REF-1240] Carolyn Whitnall and Elisabeth Oswald. "A Critical Analysis of ISO 17825 ('T esting methods for the mitigation of non-
invasive attack classes against cryptographic modules')". IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive. 2019-09-10.
.
[REF-1285] Texas Instruments. "Physical Security Attacks Against Silicon Devices". 2022-01-31.
.3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1300: (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1300.html 5/5[REF-1286] Lennert W outers, Benedikt Gierlichs and Bart Preneel. "On The Susceptibility of Texas Instruments SimpleLink
Platform Microcontrollers to Non-Invasive Physical Attacks". 1.2 / 5. 2022-03-14. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2022/328.pdf >.
[REF-1368] "mod\_exp.v". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/rsa/mod\_exp.v#L46:L
47>. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
[REF-1369] "Fix CWE-1300". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/37e42f724c14b8e4cc8f6e13462c12a492778219/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/rsa/mod\_exp.v#L47:L
51>. URL validated: 2023-09-29 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-29
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-11 Anders Nordstrom, Alric Althof f Tortuga Logic
Provided detection methods, observed examples, and references
2021-10-13 Nicole Fern Riscure
Provided detection methods, observed examples, and references
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names