3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-270: Privilege Context Switching Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/270.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-270: Privilege Context Switching Error
Weakness ID: 270
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly manage privileges while it is switching between dif ferent contexts that have dif ferent privileges or
spheres of control.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
A user can assume the identity of another user with separate privileges in another context. This will
give the user unauthorized access that may allow them to acquire the access information of other
users.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1688 Web browser cross domain problem when user hits "back" button.
CVE-2003-1026 Web browser cross domain problem when user hits "back" button.
CVE-2002-1770 Cross-domain issue - third party product passes code to web browser , which executes it in unsafe
zone.
CVE-2005-2263 Run callback in dif ferent security context after it has been changed from untrusted to trusted. \* note
that "context switch before actions are completed" is one type of problem that happens frequently ,
espec. in browsers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediatelyAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-270: Privilege Context Switching Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/270.html 2/2give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a
system resource.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This concept needs more study .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Privilege Context Switching Error
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-17 Using Malicious Files
CAPEC-30 Hijacking a Privileged Thread of Execution
CAPEC-35 Leverage Executable Code in Non-Executable Files
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 7, "Running with Least Privilege" Page 207. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
