3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-842: Placement of User into Incorrect Group (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/842.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-842: Placement of User into Incorrect Group
Weakness ID: 842
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product or the administrator places a user into an incorrect group.
 Extended Description
If the incorrect group has more access or privileges than the intended group, the user might be able to bypass intended security policy
to access unexpected resources or perform unexpected actions. The access-control system might not be able to detect malicious
usage of this group membership.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 286 Incorrect User Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1212 Authorization Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1193 Operating system assigns user to privileged wheel group, allowing the user to gain root privileges.
CVE-2010-3716 Chain: drafted web request allows the creation of users with arbitrary group membership.
CVE-2008-5397 Chain: improper processing of configuration options causes users to contain unintended group
memberships.
CVE-2007-6644 CMS does not prevent remote administrators from promoting other users to the administrator group, in
violation of the intended security model.
CVE-2007-3260 Product assigns members to the root group, allowing escalation of privileges.
CVE-2002-0080 Chain: daemon does not properly clear groups before dropping privileges.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-842: Placement of User into Incorrect Group (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/842.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-03-24
(CWE 1.12, 2011-03-30)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications