3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/642.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data
Weakness ID: 642
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores security-critical state information about its users, or the product itself, in a location that is accessible to
unauthorized actors.
 Extended Description
If an attacker can modify the state information without detection, then it could be used to perform unauthorized actions or access
unexpected resources, since the application programmer does not expect that the state can be changed.
State information can be stored in various locations such as a cookie, in a hidden web form field, input parameter or argument, an
environment variable, a database record, within a settings file, etc. All of these locations have the potential to be modified by an
attacker . When this state information is used to control security or determine resource usage, then it may create a vulnerability . For
example, an application may perform authentication, then save the state in an "authenticated=true" cookie. An attacker may simply
create this cookie in order to bypass the authentication.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ParentOf 15 External Control of System or Configuration Setting
ParentOf 73 External Control of File Name or Path
ParentOf 426 Untrusted Search Path
ParentOf 472 External Control of Assumed-Immutable W eb Parameter
ParentOf 565 Reliance on Cookies without V alidation and Integrity Checking
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could potentially modify the state in malicious ways. If the state is related to the
privileges or level of authentication that the user has, then state modification might allow the user to
bypass authentication or elevate privileges.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The state variables may contain sensitive information that should not be known by the client.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
By modifying state variables, the attacker could violate the application's expectations for the
contents of the state, leading to a denial of service due to an unexpected error condition.
 Likelihood Of ExploitAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/642.html 2/5High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, an authentication flag is read from a browser cookie, thus allowing for external control of user state data.
Example 2
The following code uses input from an HTTP request to create a file name. The programmer has not considered the possibility that an
attacker could provide a file name such as "../../tomcat/conf/server .xml", which causes the application to delete one of its own
configuration files ( CWE-22 ).
Example 3
The following code uses input from a configuration file to determine which file to open and echo back to the user . If the program runs
with privileges and malicious users can change the configuration file, they can use the program to read any file on the system that
ends with the extension .txt.
Example 4
This program is intended to execute a command that lists the contents of a restricted directory , then performs other actions. Assume
that it runs with setuid privileges in order to bypass the permissions check by the operating system.
This code may look harmless at first, since both the directory and the command are set to fixed values that the attacker can't control.
The attacker can only see the contents for DIR, which is the intended program behavior . Finally , the programmer is also careful to limit
the code that executes with raised privileges.
However , because the program does not modify the P ATH environment variable, the following attack would work:
Example 5
The following code segment implements a basic server that uses the "ls" program to perform a directory listing of the directory that is
listed in the "HOMEDIR" environment variable. The code intends to allow the user to specify an alternate "LANG" environment(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Cookie[] cookies = request.getCookies();
for (int i =0; i< cookies.length; i++) {
Cookie c = cookies[i];
if (c.getName().equals("authenticated") && Boolean.TRUE.equals(c.getValue())) {
authenticated = true;
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String rName = request.getParameter("reportName");
File rFile = new File("/usr/local/apfr/reports/" + rName);
...
rFile.delete();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
fis = new FileInputStream(cfg.getProperty("sub")+".txt");
amt = fis.read(arr);
out.println(arr);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define DIR "/restricted/directory"
char cmd[500];
sprintf(cmd, "ls -l %480s", DIR);
/\* Raise privileges to those needed for accessing DIR. \*/
RaisePrivileges(...);
system(cmd);
DropPrivileges(...);
...
(attack code) 
The user sets the PATH to reference a directory under the attacker's control, such as "/my/dir/".
The attacker creates a malicious program called "ls", and puts that program in /my/dir
The user executes the program.
When system() is executed, the shell consults the PATH to find the ls program
The program finds the attacker's malicious program, "/my/dir/ls". It doesn't find "/bin/ls" because PATH does not contain "/bin/".
The program executes the attacker's malicious program with the raised privileges.3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/642.html 3/5variable. This causes "ls" to customize its output based on a given language, which is an important capability when supporting
internationalization.
The programmer takes care to call a specific "ls" program and sets the HOMEDIR to a fixed value. However , an attacker can use a
command such as "ENV HOMEDIR /secret/directory" to specify an alternate directory , enabling a path traversal attack ( CWE-22 ). At
the same time, other attacks are enabled as well, such as OS command injection ( CWE-78 ) by setting HOMEDIR to a value such as
"/tmp; rm -rf /". In this case, the programmer never intends for HOMEDIR to be modified, so input validation for HOMEDIR is not the
solution. A partial solution would be an allowlist that only allows the LANG variable to be specified in the ENV command. Alternately ,
assuming this is an authenticated user , the language could be stored in a local file so that no ENV command at all would be needed.
While this example may not appear realistic, this type of problem shows up in code fairly frequently . See CVE-1999-0073 in the
observed examples for a real-world example with similar behaviors.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-2428 Mail client stores password hashes for unrelated accounts in a hidden form field.
CVE-2008-0306 Privileged program trusts user-specified environment variable to modify critical configuration settings.
CVE-1999-0073 Telnet daemon allows remote clients to specify critical environment variables for the server , leading to
code execution.
CVE-2007-4432 Untrusted search path vulnerability through modified LD\_LIBRAR Y\_PATH environment variable.
CVE-2006-7191 Untrusted search path vulnerability through modified LD\_LIBRAR Y\_PATH environment variable.
CVE-2008-5738 Calendar application allows bypass of authentication by setting a certain cookie value to 1.
CVE-2008-5642 Setting of a language preference in a cookie enables path traversal attack.
CVE-2008-5125 Application allows admin privileges by setting a cookie value to "admin."
CVE-2008-5065 Application allows admin privileges by setting a cookie value to "admin."
CVE-2008-4752 Application allows admin privileges by setting a cookie value to "admin."
CVE-2000-0102 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2000-0253 Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.
CVE-2008-1319 Server allows client to specify the search path, which can be modified to point to a program that the
client has uploaded.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Understand all the potential locations that are accessible to attackers. For example, some programmers assume that cookies
and hidden form fields cannot be modified by an attacker , or they may not consider that environment variables can be modified
before a privileged program is invoked.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Store state information and sensitive data on the server side only .
Ensure that the system definitively and unambiguously keeps track of its own state and user state and has rules defined for
legitimate state transitions. Do not allow any application user to af fect state directly in any way other than through legitimate
actions leading to state transitions.
If information must be stored on the client, do not do so without encryption and integrity checking, or otherwise having a
mechanism on the server side to catch tampering. Use a message authentication code (MAC) algorithm, such as Hash Message
Authentication Code (HMAC) [ REF-529 ]. Apply this against the state or sensitive data that has to be exposed, which can
guarantee the integrity of the data - i.e., that the data has not been modified. Ensure that a strong hash function is used ( CWE-
328).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Store state information on the server side only . Ensure that the system definitively and unambiguously keeps track of its own
state and user state and has rules defined for legitimate state transitions. Do not allow any application user to af fect state
directly in any way other than through legitimate actions leading to state transitions.
Phase: Architecture and Design(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$ENV{"HOMEDIR"} = "/home/mydir/public/";
my $stream = AcceptUntrustedInputStream();
while (<$stream>) {
chomp;
if (/^ENV ([\w\\_]+) (.\*)/) {
$ENV{$1} = $2;
}
elsif (/^QUIT/) { ... }
elsif (/^LIST/) {
open($fh, "/bin/ls -l $ENV{HOMEDIR}|");
while (<$fh>) {
SendOutput($stream, "FILEINFO: $\_");
}
close($fh);
}
}3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/642.html 4/5Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
With a stateless protocol such as HTTP , use some frameworks can maintain the state for you.
Examples include ASP.NET View State and the OW ASP ESAPI Session Management feature.
Be careful of language features that provide state support, since these might be provided as a convenience to the programmer
and may not be considering security .
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phases: Operation; Implementation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
When using PHP , configure the application so that it does not use register\_globals. During implementation, develop the
application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register\_globals emulation that is subject to
weaknesses such as CWE-95 , CWE-621 , and similar issues.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Phase: T esting
Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz
testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down, but it should not become
unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Phase: T esting
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-642: External Control of Critical State Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/642.html 5/5CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-21 Exploitation of Trusted Identifiers
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
 References
[REF-528] OW ASP. "Top 10 2007-Insecure Direct Object Reference". 2007. < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/T op\_10\_2007-A4 >.
[REF-529] "HMAC". Wikipedia. 2011-08-18. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 4: Use of Magic URLs,
Predictable Cookies, and Hidden Form Fields." Page 75. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names