3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-114: Process Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/114.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-114: Process Control
Weakness ID: 114
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
Executing commands or loading libraries from an untrusted source or in an untrusted environment can cause an application to
execute malicious commands (and payloads) on behalf of an attacker .
 Extended Description
Process control vulnerabilities take two forms:
An attacker can change the command that the program executes: the attacker explicitly controls what the command is.
An attacker can change the environment in which the command executes: the attacker implicitly controls what the command
means.
Process control vulnerabilities of the first type occur when either data enters the application from an untrusted source and the data is
used as part of a string representing a command that is executed by the application. By executing the command, the application gives
an attacker a privilege or capability that the attacker would not otherwise have.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 73 External Control of File Name or Path
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses System.loadLibrary() to load code from a native library named library .dll, which is normally found in a
standard system directory .
The problem here is that System.loadLibrary() accepts a library name, not a path, for the library to be loaded. From the Java 1.4.2 API
documentation this function behaves as follows [1]: A file containing native code is loaded from the local file system from a place
where library files are conventionally obtained. The details of this process are implementation-dependent. The mapping from a library
name to a specific filename is done in a system-specific manner . If an attacker is able to place a malicious copy of library .dll higher in
the search order than file the application intends to load, then the application will load the malicious copy instead of the intended file.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
System.loadLibrary("library.dll");
...3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-114: Process Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/114.html 2/3Because of the nature of the application, it runs with elevated privileges, which means the contents of the attacker's library .dll will now
be run with elevated privileges, possibly giving them complete control of the system.
Example 2
The following code from a privileged application uses a registry entry to determine the directory in which it is installed and loads a
library file based on a relative path from the specified directory .
The code in this example allows an attacker to load an arbitrary library , from which code will be executed with the elevated privilege of
the application, by modifying a registry key to specify a dif ferent path containing a malicious version of INITLIB. Because the program
does not validate the value read from the environment, if an attacker can control the value of APPHOME, they can fool the application
into running malicious code.
Example 3
The following code is from a web-based administration utility that allows users access to an interface through which they can update
their profile on the system. The utility makes use of a library named liberty .dll, which is normally found in a standard system directory .
The problem is that the program does not specify an absolute path for liberty .dll. If an attacker is able to place a malicious library
named liberty .dll higher in the search order than file the application intends to load, then the application will load the malicious copy
instead of the intended file. Because of the nature of the application, it runs with elevated privileges, which means the contents of the
attacker's liberty .dll will now be run with elevated privileges, possibly giving the attacker complete control of the system. The type of
attack seen in this example is made possible because of the search order used by LoadLibrary() when an absolute path is not
specified. If the current directory is searched before system directories, as was the case up until the most recent versions of Windows,
then this type of attack becomes trivial if the attacker can execute the program locally . The search order is operating system version
dependent, and is controlled on newer operating systems by the value of the registry key:
HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\SafeDllSearchMode
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Libraries that are loaded should be well understood and come from a trusted source. The application can execute code
contained in the native libraries, which often contain calls that are susceptible to other security problems, such as buf fer
overflows or command injection. All native libraries should be validated to determine if the application requires the use of the
library . It is very dif ficult to determine what these native libraries actually do, and the potential for malicious code is high. In
addition, the potential for an inadvertent mistake in these native libraries is also high, as many are written in C or C++ and may
be susceptible to buf fer overflow or race condition problems. To help prevent buf fer overflow attacks, validate all input to native
calls for content and length. If the native library does not come from a trusted source, review the source code of the library . The
library should be built from the reviewed source before using it.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
RegQueryValueEx(hkey, "APPHOME",
0, 0, (BYTE\*)home, &size);
char\* lib=(char\*)malloc(strlen(home)+strlen(INITLIB));
if (lib) {
strcpy(lib,home);
strcat(lib,INITCMD);
LoadLibrary(lib);
}
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
LoadLibrary("liberty.dll");3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-114: Process Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/114.html 3/3
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
CWE-114 is a Class, but it is listed a child of CWE-73 in view 1000. This suggests some abstraction problems that should be
resolved in future versions.
Maintenance
This entry seems to have close relationships with CWE-426 /CWE-427 . It seems more attack-oriented.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Process Control
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-108 Command Line Execution through SQL Injection
CAPEC-640 Inclusion of Code in Existing Process
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications