3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-778: Insuﬃcient Logging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/778.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-778: Insufficient Logging
Weakness ID: 778
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When a security-critical event occurs, the product either does not record the event or omits important details about the event when
logging it.
 Extended Description
When security-critical events are not logged properly , such as a failed login attempt, this can make malicious behavior more dif ficult to
detect and may hinder forensic analysis after an attack succeeds.
As organizations adopt cloud storage resources, these technologies often require configuration changes to enable detailed logging
information, since detailed logging can incur additional costs. This could lead to telemetry gaps in critical audit logs. For example, in
Azure, the default value for logging is disabled.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ChildOf 223 Omission of Security-relevant Information
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1210 Audit / Logging Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
If security critical information is not recorded, there will be no trail for forensic analysis and
discovering the cause of problems or the source of attacks may become more dif ficult or
impossible.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The example below shows a configuration for the service security audit feature in the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 



3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-778: Insuﬃcient Logging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/778.html 2/4The previous configuration file has ef fectively disabled the recording of security-critical events, which would force the administrator to
look to other sources during debug or recovery ef forts.
Logging failed authentication attempts can warn administrators of potential brute force attacks. Similarly , logging successful
authentication events can provide a useful audit trail when a legitimate account is compromised. The following configuration shows
appropriate settings, assuming that the site does not have excessive traf fic, which could fill the logs if there are a large number of
success or failure events ( CWE-779 ).
Example 2
In the following Java example the code attempts to authenticate the user . If the login fails a retry is made. Proper restrictions on the
number of login attempts are of course part of the retry functionality . Unfortunately , the failed login is not recorded and there would be
no record of an adversary attempting to brute force the program.
It is recommended to log the failed login action. Note that unneutralized usernames should not be part of the log message, and
passwords should never be part of the log message.
Example 3
Consider this command for updating Azure's Storage Logging for Blob service, adapted from [ REF-1307 ]:
The "--log d" portion of the command says to log deletes. However , the argument does not include the logging of writes and reads.
Adding the "rw" arguments to the -log parameter will fix the issue:
To enable Azure's storage analytic logs programmatically using PowerShell:

...

(good code) Example Language: XML 





...

(bad code) Example Language: Java 
if LoginUser(){
// Login successful
RunProgram();
} else {
// Login unsuccessful
LoginRetry();
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
if LoginUser(){
// Login successful
log.warn("Login by user successful.");
RunProgram();
} else {
// Login unsuccessful
log.warn("Login attempt by user failed, trying again.");
LoginRetry();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Shell 
az storage logging update --account-name --account-key --services b --log d --retention 90
(good code) Example Language: Shell 
az storage logging update --account-name --account-key --services b --log rwd --retention 90
(good code) Example Language: Shell 3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-778: Insuﬃcient Logging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/778.html 3/4Notice that here, the retention has been limited to 5 days.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-4315 server does not log failed authentication attempts, making it easier for attackers to perform brute force
password guessing without being detected
CVE-2008-1203 admin interface does not log failed authentication attempts, making it easier for attackers to perform
brute force password guessing without being detected
CVE-2007-3730 default configuration for POP server does not log source IP or username for login attempts
CVE-2007-1225 proxy does not log requests without "http://" in the URL, allowing web surfers to access restricted web
content without detection
CVE-2003-1566 web server does not log requests for a non-standard request type
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a centralized logging mechanism that supports multiple levels of detail.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all security-related successes and failures can be logged. When storing data in the cloud (e.g., AWS S3 buckets,
Azure blobs, Google Cloud Storage, etc.), use the provider's controls to enable and capture detailed logging information.
Phase: Operation
Be sure to set the level of logging appropriately in a production environment. Suf ficient data should be logged to enable system
administrators to detect attacks, diagnose errors, and recover from attacks. At the same time, logging too much data ( CWE-779 )
can cause the same problems, including unexpected costs when using a cloud environment.
Phase: Operation
To enable storage logging using Azure's Portal, navigate to the name of the Storage Account, locate Monitoring (CLASSIC)
section, and select Diagnostic settings (classic). For each of the various properties (blob, file, table, queue), ensure the status is
properly set for the desired logging data. If using PowerShell, the Set-AzStorageServiceLoggingProperty command could be
called using appropriate -ServiceT ype, -LoggingOperations, and -RetentionDays arguments.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1036 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A10 - Insuf ficient Logging & Monitoring
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1355 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A09:2021 - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Accountability",
Page 40. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
Set-AzStorageServiceLoggingProperty -ServiceType Queue -LoggingOperations read,write,delete -RetentionDays 5 -Context
$MyContextObject3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-778: Insuﬃcient Logging (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/778.html 4/4[REF-1307] Center for Internet Security . "CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark version 1.5.0". Sections 3.5, 3.13, and
3.14. 2022-08-16. < https://www .cisecurity .org/benchmark/azure >. URL validated: 2023-01-19 .
[REF-1308] Microsoft. "Enable and manage Azure Storage Analytics logs (classic)". 2023-01-23. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/storage/common/manage-storage-analytics-logs >. URL validated: 2023-01-24 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-02
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2009-07-02 Fortify Software
Provided code example and additional information for description and consequences.
2022-08-15 Drew Buttner
Suggested a new demonstrative example and changes to the mitigations.
 Modifications