3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1303: Non-Transparent Sharing of Microarchitectural Resources (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1303.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1303: Non-T ransparent Sharing of Microarchitectural Resources
Weakness ID: 1303
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Hardware structures shared across execution contexts (e.g., caches and branch predictors) can violate the expected architecture
isolation between contexts.
 Extended Description
Modern processors use techniques such as out-of-order execution, speculation, prefetching, data forwarding, and caching to increase
performance. Details about the implementation of these techniques are hidden from the programmer's view . This is problematic when
the hardware implementation of these techniques results in resources being shared across supposedly isolated contexts. Contention
for shared resources between dif ferent contexts opens covert channels that allow malicious programs executing in one context to
recover information from another context.
Some examples of shared micro-architectural resources that have been used to leak information between contexts are caches,
branch prediction logic, and load or store buf fers. Speculative and out-of-order execution provides an attacker with increased control
over which data is leaked through the covert channel.
If the extent of resource sharing between contexts in the design microarchitecture is undocumented, it is extremely dif ficult to ensure
system assets are protected against disclosure.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 203 Observable Discrepancy
ChildOf 1189 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during implementation and identified later during Testing or System
Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Memory
Microarchitectural side-channels have been used to leak specific information such as cryptographic
keys, and Address Space Layout Randomization (ALSR) of fsets as well as arbitrary memory .
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1303: Non-Transparent Sharing of Microarchitectural Resources (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1303.html 2/2Example 1
On some processors the hardware indirect branch predictor is shared between execution contexts, for example, between sibling SMT
threads. When SMT thread A executes an indirect branch to a target address X, this target may be temporarily stored by the indirect
branch predictor . A subsequent indirect branch mis-prediction for SMT thread B could speculatively execute instructions at X (or at a
location in B's address space that partially aliases X). Even though the processor rolls back the architectural ef fects of the mis-
predicted indirect branch, the memory accesses alter data cache state, which is not rolled back after the indirect branch is resolved.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Microarchitectural covert channels can be addressed using a mixture of hardware and software mitigation techniques. These
include partitioned caches, new barrier and flush instructions, and disabling high resolution performance counters and timers.
Phase: Requirements
Microarchitectural covert channels can be addressed using a mixture of hardware and software mitigation techniques. These
include partitioned caches, new barrier and flush instructions, and disabling high resolution performance counters and timers.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are closely analyzing this entry and others to improve CWE's coverage of
transient execution weaknesses, which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks. Additional investigation may
include other weaknesses related to microarchitectural state. Finally , this entry's demonstrative example might not be appropriate.
As a result, this entry might change significantly in CWE 4.10.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-663 Exploitation of Transient Instruction Execution
 References
[REF-1121] Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Gruss, Thomas Prescher , Werner Haas, Anders Fogh, Jann Horn, Stegfan
Mangard, Paul Kocher , Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom and Mike Hamberg. "Meltdown: Reading Kernel Memory from User Space".
2018-01-03. < https://meltdownattack.com/meltdown.pdf >.
[REF-1122] Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Gruss, Thomas Prescher , Werner Haas, Anders Fogh, Jann Horn, Stegfan
Mangard, Paul Kocher , Daniel Genkin, Yuval Yarom and Mike Hamberg. "Spectre Attacks: Exploiting Speculative Execution".
2018-01-03. < https://spectreattack.com/spectre.pdf >.
[REF-1123] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev and Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016-10-19. < https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7783743/ >.
[REF-1124] Qian Ge, Yuval Yarom, David Cock and Gernot Heiser . "A Survey of Microarchitectural Timing Attacks and
Countermeasures on Contemporary Hardware". 2016-10-24. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2016/613.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-08
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Modifications
