3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output
Weakness ID: 116
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product prepares a structured message for communication with another component, but encoding or escaping of the data is
either missing or done incorrectly . As a result, the intended structure of the message is not preserved.
 Extended Description
Improper encoding or escaping can allow attackers to change the commands that are sent to another component, inserting malicious
commands instead.
Most products follow a certain protocol that uses structured messages for communication between components, such as queries or
commands. These structured messages can contain raw data interspersed with metadata or control information. For example, "GET
/index.html HTTP/1.1" is a structured message containing a command ("GET") with a single argument ("/index.html") and metadata
about which protocol version is being used ("HTTP/1.1").
If an application uses attacker-supplied inputs to construct a structured message without properly encoding or escaping, then the
attacker could insert special characters that will cause the data to be interpreted as control information or metadata. Consequently ,
the component that receives the output will perform the wrong operations, or otherwise interpret the data incorrectly .
 Alternate T erms
Output Sanitization
Output V alidation
Output Encoding
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
ParentOf 117 Improper Output Neutralization for Logs
ParentOf 644 Improper Neutralization of HTTP Headers for Scripting Syntax
ParentOf 838 Inappropriate Encoding for Output Context
CanPrecede 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
Technologies
Database Server (Often Prevalent)
Web Server (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
The communications between components can be modified in unexpected ways. Unexpected
commands can be executed, bypassing other security mechanisms. Incoming data can be
misinterpreted.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 2/6Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The communications between components can be modified in unexpected ways. Unexpected
commands can be executed, bypassing other security mechanisms. Incoming data can be
misinterpreted.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
The communications between components can be modified in unexpected ways. Unexpected
commands can be executed, bypassing other security mechanisms. Incoming data can be
misinterpreted.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code displays an email address that was submitted as part of a form.
The value read from the form parameter is reflected back to the client browser without having been encoded prior to output, allowing
various XSS attacks ( CWE-79 ).
Example 2
Consider a chat application in which a front-end web application communicates with a back-end server . The back-end is legacy code
that does not perform authentication or authorization, so the front-end must implement it. The chat protocol supports two commands,
SAY and BAN, although only administrators can use the BAN command. Each argument must be separated by a single space. The
raw inputs are URL-encoded. The messaging protocol allows multiple commands to be specified on the same line if they are
separated by a "|" character .
First let's look at the back end command processor code
The front end web application receives a command, encodes it for sending to the server , performs the authorization check, and sends
the command to the server .(bad code) Example Language: JSP 
<% String email = request.getParameter("email"); %>
...
Email Address: <%= email %>
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$inputString = readLineFromFileHandle($serverFH);
# generate an array of strings separated by the "|" character.
@commands = split(/\|/, $inputString);
foreach $cmd (@commands) {
# separate the operator from its arguments based on a single whitespace
($operator, $args) = split(/ /, $cmd, 2);
$args = UrlDecode($args);
if ($operator eq "BAN") {
ExecuteBan($args);
}
elsif ($operator eq "SAY") {
ExecuteSay($args);
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$inputString = GetUntrustedArgument("command");
($cmd, $argstr) = split(/\s+/, $inputString, 2);
# removes extra whitespace and also changes CRLF's to spaces
$argstr =~ s/\s+/ /gs;
$argstr = UrlEncode($argstr);
if (($cmd eq "BAN") && (! IsAdministrator($username))) {
die "Error: you are not the admin.\n";
}
# communicate with file server using a file handle
$fh = GetServerFileHandle("myserver");
print $fh "$cmd $argstr\n";3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 3/6It is clear that, while the protocol and back-end allow multiple commands to be sent in a single request, the front end only intends to
send a single command. However , the UrlEncode function could leave the "|" character intact. If an attacker provides:
then the front end will see this is a "SA Y" command, and the $argstr will look like "hello world | BAN user12". Since the command is
"SAY", the check for the "BAN" command will fail, and the front end will send the URL-encoded command to the back end:
The back end, however , will treat these as two separate commands:
Notice, however , that if the front end properly encodes the "|" with "%7C", then the back end will only process a single command.
Example 3
This example takes user input, passes it through an encoding scheme and then creates a directory specified by the user .
The programmer attempts to encode dangerous characters, however the denylist for encoding is incomplete ( CWE-184 ) and an
attacker can still pass a semicolon, resulting in a chain with command injection ( CWE-77 ).
Additionally , the encoding routine is used inappropriately with command execution. An attacker doesn't even need to insert their own
semicolon. The attacker can instead leverage the encoding routine to provide the semicolon to separate the commands. If an attacker
supplies a string of the form:
then the program will encode the apostrophe and insert the semicolon, which functions as a command separator when passed to the
system function. This allows the attacker to complete the command injection.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-41232 Chain: authentication routine in Go-based agile development product does not escape user name
(CWE-116 ), allowing LDAP injection ( CWE-90 )
CVE-2008-4636 OS command injection in backup software using shell metacharacters in a filename; correct behavior
would require that this filename could not be changed.
CVE-2008-0769 Web application does not set the charset when sending a page to a browser , allowing for XSS
exploitation when a browser chooses an unexpected encoding.
CVE-2008-0005 Program does not set the charset when sending a page to a browser , allowing for XSS exploitation
when a browser chooses an unexpected encoding.
CVE-2008-5573 SQL injection via password parameter; a strong password might contain "&"
CVE-2008-3773 Cross-site scripting in chat application via a message subject, which normally might contain "&" and
other XSS-related characters.(attack code) 
SAY hello world|BAN user12
(result) 
SAY hello%20world|BAN%20user12
(result) 
SAY hello world
BAN user12
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
sub GetUntrustedInput {
return($ARGV[0]);
}
sub encode {
my($str) = @\_;
$str =~ s/\&/\&/gs;
$str =~ s/\"/\"/gs;
$str =~ s/\'/\'/gs;
$str =~ s/\/\>/gs;
return($str);
}
sub doit {
my $uname = encode(GetUntrustedInput("username"));
print "**Welcome, $uname!**\n";
system("cd /home/$uname; /bin/ls -l");
}
(attack code) 
' pwd3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 4/6CVE-2008-0757 Cross-site scripting in chat application via a message, which normally might be allowed to contain
arbitrary content.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, consider using the ESAPI Encoding control [ REF-45 ] or a similar tool, library , or framework. These will help the
programmer encode outputs in a manner less prone to error .
Alternately , use built-in functions, but consider using wrappers in case those functions are discovered to have a vulnerability .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Parameterization
If available, use structured mechanisms that automatically enforce the separation between data and code. These mechanisms
may be able to provide the relevant quoting, encoding, and validation automatically , instead of relying on the developer to
provide this capability at every point where output is generated.
For example, stored procedures can enforce database query structure and reduce the likelihood of SQL injection.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Understand the context in which your data will be used and the encoding that will be expected. This is especially important when
transmitting data between dif ferent components, or when generating outputs that can contain multiple encodings at the same
time, such as web pages or multi-part mail messages. Study all expected communication protocols and data representations to
determine the required encoding strategies.
Phase: Architecture and Design
In some cases, input validation may be an important strategy when output encoding is not a complete solution. For example, you
may be providing the same output that will be processed by multiple consumers that use dif ferent encodings or representations.
In other cases, you may be required to allow user-supplied input to contain control information, such as limited HTML tags that
support formatting in a wiki or bulletin board. When this type of requirement must be met, use an extremely strict allowlist to limit
which control sequences can be used. V erify that the resulting syntactic structure is what you expect. Use your normal encoding
methods for the remainder of the input.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use input validation as a defense-in-depth measure to reduce the likelihood of output encoding errors (see CWE-20 ).
Phase: Requirements
Fully specify which encodings are required by components that will be communicating with each other .
Phase: Implementation
When exchanging data between components, ensure that both components are using the same character encoding. Ensure that
the proper encoding is applied at each interface. Explicitly set the encoding you are using whenever the protocol allows you to
do so.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 751 2009 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1134 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 00. Input V alidation and Data
Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 5/6MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness is primary to all weaknesses related to injection ( CWE-74 ) since the inherent nature of injection involves the violation
of structured messages.
Relationship
CWE-116 and CWE-20 have a close association because, depending on the nature of the structured message, proper input
validation can indirectly prevent special characters from changing the meaning of a structured message. For example, by validating
that a numeric ID field should only contain the 0-9 characters, the programmer ef fectively prevents injection attacks.
However , input validation is not always suf ficient, especially when less stringent data types must be supported, such as free-form
text. Consider a SQL injection scenario in which a last name is inserted into a query . The name "O'Reilly" would likely pass the
validation step since it is a common last name in the English language. However , it cannot be directly inserted into the database
because it contains the "'" apostrophe character , which would need to be escaped or otherwise neutralized. In this case, stripping
the apostrophe might reduce the risk of SQL injection, but it would produce incorrect behavior because the wrong name would be
recorded.
Terminology
The usage of the "encoding" and "escaping" terms varies widely . For example, in some programming languages, the terms are used
interchangeably , while other languages provide APIs that use both terms for dif ferent tasks. This overlapping usage extends to the
Web, such as the "escape" JavaScript function whose purpose is stated to be encoding. The concepts of encoding and escaping
predate the W eb by decades. Given such a context, it is dif ficult for CWE to adopt a consistent vocabulary that will not be
misinterpreted by some constituency .
Theoretical
This is a data/directive boundary error in which data boundaries are not suf ficiently enforced before it is sent to a dif ferent control
sphere.
Research Gap
While many published vulnerabilities are related to insuf ficient output encoding, there is such an emphasis on input validation as a
protection mechanism that the underlying causes are rarely described. Within CVE, the focus is primarily on well-understood issues
like cross-site scripting and SQL injection. It is likely that this weakness frequently occurs in custom protocols that support multiple
encodings, which are not necessarily detectable with automated techniques.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 22 Improper Output Handling
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS00-J Exact Sanitize untrusted data passed across a trust boundary
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS05-J Use a subset of ASCII for file and path names
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaIDS00-J Imprecise Prevent SQL injection
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS33-PL Exact Sanitize untrusted data passed across a trust boundary
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-104 Cross Zone Scripting
CAPEC-73 User-Controlled Filename
CAPEC-81 Web Server Logs Tampering
CAPEC-85 AJAX Footprinting
 References
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-46] Joshbw . "Output Sanitization". 2008-09-18.
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-116: Improper Encoding or Escaping of Output (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/116.html 6/6. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-47] Niyaz PK. "Sanitizing user data: How and where to do it". 2008-09-11.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-48] Jeremiah Grossman. "Input validation or output filtering, which is better?". 2007-01-30.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-49] Jim Manico. "Input V alidation - Not That Important". 2008-08-10. < https://manicode.blogspot.com/2008/08/input-
validation-not-that-important.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-50] Michael Eddington. "Preventing XSS with Correct Output Encoding". < http://phed.org/2008/05/19/preventing-xss-with-
correct-output-encoding/ >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 11, "Canonical Representation Issues" Page 363.
2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names

