3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1357: Reliance on Insuﬃciently Trustworthy Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1357.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1357: Reliance on Insufficiently T rustworthy Component
Weakness ID: 1357
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product is built from multiple separate components, but it uses a component that is not suf ficiently trusted to meet expectations
for security , reliability , updateability , and maintainability .
 Extended Description
Many modern hardware and software products are built by combining multiple smaller components together into one larger entity ,
often during the design or architecture phase. For example, a hardware component might be built by a separate supplier , or the
product might use an open-source software library from a third party .
Regardless of the source, each component should be suf ficiently trusted to ensure correct, secure operation of the product. If a
component is not trustworthy , it can produce significant risks for the overall product, such as vulnerabilities that cannot be patched fast
enough (if at all); hidden functionality such as malware; inability to update or replace the component if needed for security purposes;
hardware components built from parts that do not meet specifications in ways that can lead to weaknesses; etc. Note that a
component might not be trustworthy even if it is owned by the product vendor , such as a software component whose source code is
lost and was built by developers who left the company , or a component that was developed by a separate company that was acquired
and brought into the product's own company .
Note that there can be disagreement as to whether a component is suf ficiently trustworthy , since trust is ultimately subjective. Dif ferent
stakeholders (e.g., customers, vendors, governments) have various threat models and ways to assess trust, and design/architecture
choices might make tradeof fs between security , reliability , safety , privacy , cost, and other characteristics.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
ParentOf 1104 Use of Unmaintained Third Party Components
ParentOf 1329 Reliance on Component That is Not Updateable
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1208 Cross-Cutting Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
RequirementsRequirements might include criteria for which the only available solutions are provided by insuf ficiently
trusted components.
Architecture and DesignAn insuf ficiently trusted component might be selected because it is less expensive to do in-house,
requires expertise that is not available in-house, or might allow the product to reach the market faster .
 Applicable Platforms
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1357: Reliance on Insuﬃciently Trustworthy Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1357.html 2/3CVE-2020-9054 Chain: network-attached storage (NAS) device has a critical OS command injection ( CWE-78 )
vulnerability that is actively exploited to place IoT devices into a botnet, but some products are "end-of-
support" and cannot be patched ( CWE-1277 ). [REF-1097 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Requirements; Architecture and Design; Implementation
For each component, ensure that its supply chain is well-controlled with sub-tier suppliers using best practices. For third-party
software components such as libraries, ensure that they are developed and actively maintained by reputable vendors.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; Integration; Manufacturing
Maintain a Bill of Materials for all components and sub-components of the product. For software, maintain a Software Bill of
Materials (SBOM). According to [ REF-1247 ], "An SBOM is a formal, machine-readable inventory of software components and
dependencies, information about those components, and their hierarchical relationships."
Phases: Operation; Patching and Maintenance
Continue to monitor changes in each of the product's components, especially when the changes indicate new vulnerabilities,
end-of-life (EOL) plans, supplier practices that af fect trustworthiness, etc.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1367 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Physical Systems
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1370 ICS Supply Chain: Common Mode Frailties
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.10, the name and description for this entry has undergone significant change and is still under public discussion,
especially by members of the HW SIG.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.02 RE(1)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.02 RE(2)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.13
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req EDR 3.12
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req HDR 3.12
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req NDR 3.12
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req EDR 3.13
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req HDR 3.13
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req NDR 3.13
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR-7.8
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-6
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-9
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-10
 References
[REF-1212] "A06:2021 - V ulnerable and Outdated Components". OW ASP. 2021-09-24. < https://owasp.org/T op10/A06\_2021-
Vulnerable\_and\_Outdated\_Components/ >.
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1357: Reliance on Insuﬃciently Trustworthy Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1357.html 3/3[REF-1246] National Telecommunications and Information Administration. "SOFTW ARE BILL OF MA TERIALS".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1247] NTIA Multistakeholder Process on Software Component Transparency Framing W orking Group. "Framing Software
Component Transparency: Establishing a Common Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)". 2021-10-21.
.
[REF-1097] Brian Krebs. "Zyxel Flaw Powers New Mirai IoT Botnet Strain". 2020-03-20.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2022-04-20
(CWE 4.7, 2022-04-28)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-29
(CWE 4.12, 2023-06-29)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names