3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-176: Improper Handling of Unicode Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/176.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-176: Improper Handling of Unicode Encoding
Weakness ID: 176
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle when an input contains Unicode encoding.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 172 Encoding Error
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Windows provides the MultiByteT oWideChar(), WideCharT oMultiByte(), UnicodeT oBytes(), and BytesT oUnicode() functions to convert
between arbitrary multibyte (usually ANSI) character strings and Unicode (wide character) strings. The size arguments to these
functions are specified in dif ferent units, (one in bytes, the other in characters) making their use prone to error .
In a multibyte character string, each character occupies a varying number of bytes, and therefore the size of such strings is most
easily specified as a total number of bytes. In Unicode, however , characters are always a fixed size, and string lengths are typically
given by the number of characters they contain. Mistakenly specifying the wrong units in a size argument can lead to a buf fer
overflow .
The following function takes a username specified as a multibyte string and a pointer to a structure for user information and populates
the structure with information about the specified user . Since Windows authentication uses Unicode for usernames, the username
argument is first converted from a multibyte string to a Unicode string.
This function incorrectly passes the size of unicodeUser in bytes instead of characters. The call to MultiByteT oWideChar() can
therefore write up to (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR) wide characters, or (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR)\*sizeof(WCHAR) bytes, to the
unicodeUser array , which has only (UNLEN+1)\*sizeof(WCHAR) bytes allocated.
If the username string contains more than UNLEN characters, the call to MultiByteT oWideChar() will overflow the buf fer unicodeUser .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-0884 Server allows remote attackers to read documents outside of the web root, and possibly execute
arbitrary commands, via malformed URLs that contain Unicode encoded characters.
CVE-2001-0709 Server allows a remote attacker to obtain source code of ASP files via a URL encoded with Unicode.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void getUserInfo(char \*username, struct \_USER\_INFO\_2 info){
WCHAR unicodeUser[UNLEN+1];
MultiByteToWideChar(CP\_ACP, 0, username, -1, unicodeUser, sizeof(unicodeUser));
NetUserGetInfo(NULL, unicodeUser, 2, (LPBYTE \*)&info);
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-176: Improper Handling of Unicode Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/176.html 2/3CVE-2001-0669 Overlaps interaction error .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 747 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 14 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unicode Encoding
CER T C Secure Coding MSC10-C Character Encoding - UTF8 Related Issues
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-71 Using Unicode Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "Character Sets
and Unicode", Page 446. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-176: Improper Handling of Unicode Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/176.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names