3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-698: Execution After Redirect (EAR) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/698.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-698: Execution After Redirect (EAR)
Weakness ID: 698
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application sends a redirect to another location, but instead of exiting, it executes additional code.
 Alternate T erms
Redirect W ithout Exit
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 670 Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
ChildOf 705 Incorrect Control Flow Scoping
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Other
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
This weakness could af fect the control flow of the application and allow execution of untrusted code.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code queries a server and displays its status when a request comes from an authorized IP address.
This code redirects unauthorized users, but continues to execute code after calling http\_redirect(). This means even unauthorized
users may be able to access the contents of the page or perform a DoS attack on the server being queried. Also, note that this code is
vulnerable to an IP address spoofing attack ( CWE-212 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2013-1402 Execution-after-redirect allows access to application configuration details.
CVE-2009-1936 chain: library file sends a redirect if it is directly requested but continues to execute, allowing remote file
inclusion and path traversal.
CVE-2007-2713 Remote attackers can obtain access to administrator functionality through EAR.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$requestingIP = $\_SERVER['REMOTE\_ADDR'];
if(!in\_array($requestingIP,$ipAllowList)){
echo "You are not authorized to view this page";
http\_redirect($errorPageURL);
}
$status = getServerStatus();
echo $status;
...3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-698: Execution After Redirect (EAR) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/698.html 2/2CVE-2007-4932 Remote attackers can obtain access to administrator functionality through EAR.
CVE-2007-5578 Bypass of authentication step through EAR.
CVE-2007-2713 Chain: Execution after redirect triggers eval injection.
CVE-2007-6652 chain: execution after redirect allows non-administrator to perform static code injection.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Black Box
This issue might not be detected if testing is performed using a web browser , because the browser might obey the redirect and
move the user to a dif ferent page before the application has produced outputs that indicate something is amiss.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-565] Adam Doupé, Bryce Boe, Christopher Kruegel and Giovanni V igna. "Fear the EAR: Discovering and Mitigating
Execution After Redirect V ulnerabilities". < http://cs.ucsb.edu/~bboe/public/pubs/fear-the-ear-ccs2011.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-09-09
(CWE 1.0, 2008-09-09)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
