3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-343: Predictable Value Range from Previous Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/343.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-343: Predictable V alue Range from Previous V alues
Weakness ID: 343
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's random number generator produces a series of values which, when observed, can be used to infer a relatively small
range of possibilities for the next value that could be generated.
 Extended Description
The output of a random number generator should not be predictable based on observations of previous values. In some cases, an
attacker cannot predict the exact value that will be produced next, but can narrow down the possibilities significantly . This reduces the
amount of ef fort to perform a brute force attack. For example, suppose the product generates random numbers between 1 and 100,
but it always produces a larger value until it reaches 100. If the generator produces an 80, then the attacker knows that the next value
will be somewhere between 81 and 100. Instead of 100 possibilities, the attacker only needs to consider 20.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Potential Mitigations
Increase the entropy used to seed a PRNG.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex
C ("Approved Random Number Generators").
Phase: Implementation
Use a PRNG that periodically re-seeds itself using input from high-quality sources, such as hardware devices with high entropy .
However , do not re-seed too frequently , or else the entropy source might block.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: RandomnessAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-343: Predictable Value Range from Previous Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/343.html 2/2
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Predictable V alue Range from Previous V alues
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-320] Michal Zalewski. "Strange Attractors and TCP/IP Sequence Number Analysis". 2001.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications