3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1314: Missing Write Protection for Parametric Data Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1314.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1314: Missing W rite Protection for Parametric Data V alues
Weakness ID: 1314
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device does not write-protect the parametric data values for sensors that scale the sensor value, allowing untrusted software to
manipulate the apparent result and potentially damage hardware or cause operational failure.
 Extended Description
Various sensors are used by hardware to detect any devices operating outside of the design limits. The threshold limit values are set
by hardware fuses or trusted software such as the BIOS. These limits may be related to thermal, power , voltage, current, and
frequency . Hardware mechanisms may be used to protect against alteration of the threshold limit values by untrusted software.
The limit values are generally programmed in standard units for the type of value being read. However , the hardware-sensor blocks
may report the settings in dif ferent units depending upon sensor design and operation. The raw sensor output value is converted to
the desired units using a scale conversion based on the parametric data programmed into the sensor . The final converted value is
then compared with the previously programmed limits.
While the limit values are usually protected, the sensor parametric data values may not be. By changing the parametric data, safe
operational limits may be bypassed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 862 Missing Authorization
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
PeerOf 1299 Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design The lack of a requirement to protect parametric values may contribute to this weakness.
Implementation The lack of parametric value protection may be a cause of this weakness.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Sensor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
Sensor value manipulation, particularly thermal or power , may allow physical damage to occur or
disabling of the device by a false fault shutdown causing a Denial-Of-Service.High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1314: Missing Write Protection for Parametric Data Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1314.html 2/3Malicious software executes instructions to increase power consumption to the highest possible level while causing the clock
frequency to increase to its maximum value. Such a program executing for an extended period of time would likely overheat the
device, possibly resulting in permanent damage to the device.
A ring, oscillator-based temperature sensor will generally report the sensed value as oscillator frequency rather than degrees
centigrade. The temperature sensor will have calibration values that are used to convert the detected frequency into the
corresponding temperature in degrees centigrade.
Consider a SoC design where the critical maximum temperature limit is set in fuse values to 100C and is not modifiable by software. If
the scaled thermal sensor output equals or exceeds this limit, the system is commanded to shut itself down.
The thermal sensor calibration values are programmable through registers that are exposed to system software. These registers allow
software to af fect the converted temperature output such that the output will never exceed the maximum temperature limit.
This weakness may be addressed by preventing access to a and b.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-8252 Kernel can inject faults in computations during the execution of TrustZone leading to information
disclosure in Snapdragon Auto, Snapdragon Compute, Snapdragon Connectivity , Snapdragon
Consumer Electronics Connectivity , Snapdragon Consumer IOT , Snapdragon Industrial IOT ,
Snapdragon IoT , Snapdragon Mobile, Snapdragon V oice and Music, Snapdragon W earables,
Snapdragon Wired Infrastructure and Networking.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Access controls for sensor blocks should ensure that only trusted software is allowed to change threshold limits and sensor
parametric data.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
 References
[REF-1082] Adrian Tang, Simha Sethumadhavan and Salvatore Stolfo. "CLKSCREW : Exposing the Perils of Security-Oblivious
Energy Management". < https://www .usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity17/sec17-tang.pdf >.
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The sensor frequency value is scaled by applying the function:
Sensed Temp = a + b \* Sensor Freq
where a and b are the programmable calibration data coefficients. Software sets a and b to zero ensuring the sensed temperature is
always zero.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The sensor frequency value is scaled by applying the function:
Sensed Temp = a + b \* Sensor Freq
where a and b are the programmable calibration data coefficients. Untrusted software is prevented from changing the values of either a or
b, preventing this method of manipulating the temperature.3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1314: Missing Write Protection for Parametric Data Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1314.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-07-14
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna, and Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
 Modifications