3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-407: Ineﬃcient Algorithmic Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/407.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-407: Inefficient Algorithmic Complexity
Weakness ID: 407
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
An algorithm in a product has an inef ficient worst-case computational complexity that may be detrimental to system performance and
can be triggered by an attacker , typically using crafted manipulations that ensure that the worst case is being reached.
 Alternate T erms
Quadratic Complexity: Used when the algorithmic complexity is related to the square of the number of inputs (N^2)
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 405 Asymmetric Resource Consumption (Amplification)
ParentOf 1333 Inefficient Regular Expression Complexity
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Other)
The typical consequence is CPU consumption, but memory consumption and consumption of other
resources can also occur .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example attempts to check if an input string is a "sentence" [ REF-1164 ].
The regular expression has a vulnerable backtracking clause inside (\w+\s?)\*$ which can be triggered to cause a Denial of Service by
processing particular phrases.
To fix the backtracking problem, backtracking is removed with the ?= portion of the expression which changes it to a lookahead and
the \2 which prevents the backtracking. The modified example is:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var test\_string = "Bad characters: $@#";
var bad\_pattern = /^(\w+\s?)\*$/i;
var result = test\_string.search(bad\_pattern);
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var test\_string = "Bad characters: $@#";
var good\_pattern = /^((?=(\w+))\2\s?)\*$/i;
 ltttti h(d tt)3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-407: Ineﬃcient Algorithmic Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/407.html 2/3Note that [ REF-1164 ] has a more thorough (and lengthy) explanation of everything going on within the RegEx.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-32617 C++ library for image metadata has "quadratic complexity" issue with unnecessarily repetitive parsing
each time an invalid character is encountered
CVE-2020-10735 Python has "quadratic complexity" issue when converting string to int with many digits in unexpected
bases
CVE-2020-5243 server allows ReDOS with crafted User-Agent strings, due to overlapping capture groups that cause
excessive backtracking.
CVE-2014-1474 Perl-based email address parser has "quadratic complexity" issue via a string that does not contain a
valid address
CVE-2003-0244 CPU consumption via inputs that cause many hash table collisions.
CVE-2003-0364 CPU consumption via inputs that cause many hash table collisions.
CVE-2002-1203 Product performs unnecessary processing before dropping an invalid packet.
CVE-2001-1501 CPU and memory consumption using many wildcards.
CVE-2004-2527 Product allows attackers to cause multiple copies of a program to be loaded more quickly than the
program can detect that other copies are running, then exit. This type of error should probably have its
own category , where teardown takes more time than initialization.
CVE-2006-6931 Network monitoring system allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (CPU consumption
and detection outage) via crafted network traf fic, aka a "backtracking attack."
CVE-2006-3380 Wiki allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (CPU consumption) by performing a dif f
between large, crafted pages that trigger the worst case algorithmic complexity .
CVE-2006-3379 Wiki allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (CPU consumption) by performing a dif f
between large, crafted pages that trigger the worst case algorithmic complexity .
CVE-2005-2506 OS allows attackers to cause a denial of service (CPU consumption) via crafted Gregorian dates.
CVE-2005-1792 Memory leak by performing actions faster than the software can clear them.
 Functional Areas
Cryptography
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Algorithmic Complexity
 References
[REF-395] Scott A. Crosby and Dan S. W allach. "Algorithmic Complexity Attacks". Proceedings of the 12th USENIX Security
Symposium. 2003-08. < https://www .usenix.org/legacy/events/sec03/tech/full\_papers/crosby/crosby .pdf>.
[REF-1164] Ilya Kantor . "Catastrophic backtracking". 2020-12-13. < https://javascript.info/regexp-catastrophic-backtracking >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
var result = test\_string.search(good\_pattern);3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-407: Ineﬃcient Algorithmic Complexity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/407.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names