3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-127: Buﬀer Under-read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/127.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-127: Buffer Under-read
Weakness ID: 127
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product reads from a buf fer using buf fer access mechanisms such as indexes or pointers that reference memory locations prior to
the targeted buf fer.
 Extended Description
This typically occurs when the pointer or its index is decremented to a position before the buf fer, when pointer arithmetic results in a
position before the beginning of the valid memory location, or when a negative index is used. This may result in exposure of sensitive
information or possibly a crash.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 125 Out-of-bounds Read
ChildOf 786 Access of Memory Location Before Start of Buf fer
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
By reading out-of-bounds memory , an attacker might be able to get secret values, such as memory
addresses, which can be bypass protection mechanisms such as ASLR in order to improve the
reliability and likelihood of exploiting a separate weakness to achieve code execution instead of just
denial of service.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-40985 HTML conversion package has a buf fer under-read, allowing a crash
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-127: Buﬀer Under-read (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/127.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Buffer under-read
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 References
[REF-1034] Raoul Strackx, Yves Younan, Pieter Philippaerts, Frank Piessens, Sven Lachmund and Thomas W alter. "Breaking the
memory secrecy assumption". ACM. 2009-03-31. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1519144.1519145 >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-1035] Fermin J. Serna. "The info leak era on software exploitation". 2012-07-25. < https://media.blackhat.com/bh-us-
12/Briefings/Serna/BH\_US\_12\_Serna\_Leak\_Era\_Slides.pdf >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications