3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-435: Improper Interaction Between Multiple Correctly-Behaving Entities (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/435.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-435: Improper Interaction Between Multiple Correctly-Behaving Entities
Weakness ID: 435
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An interaction error occurs when two entities have correct behavior when running independently of each other , but when they are
integrated as components in a larger system or process, they introduce incorrect behaviors that may cause resultant weaknesses.
 Extended Description
When a system or process combines multiple independent components, this often produces new , emergent behaviors at the system
level. However , if the interactions between these components are not fully accounted for , some of the emergent behaviors can be
incorrect or even insecure.
 Alternate T erms
Interaction Error
Emergent Fault
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1000 Research Concepts
ParentOf 188 Reliance on Data/Memory Layout
ParentOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
ParentOf 439 Behavioral Change in New V ersion or Environment
ParentOf 1038 Insecure Automated Optimizations
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The paper "Insertion, Evasion, and Denial of Service: Eluding Network Intrusion Detection" [ REF-428 ] shows that OSes varied widely
in how they manage unusual packets, which made it dif ficult or impossible for intrusion detection systems to properly detect certain
attacker manipulations that took advantage of these OS dif ferences.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0485 Anti-virus product allows bypass via Content-T ype and Content-Disposition headers that are mixed
case, which are still processed by some clients.
CVE-2003-0411 chain: Code was ported from a case-sensitive Unix platform to a case-insensitive Windows platform
where filetype handlers treat .jsp and .JSP as dif ferent extensions. JSP source code may be readAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Pillar
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-435: Improper Interaction Between Multiple Correctly-Behaving Entities (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/435.html 2/2because .JSP defaults to the filetype "text".
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 957 SFP Secondary Cluster: Protocol Error
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is extremely high-level, a Pillar . However , sometimes this weakness is forced to be used due to the lack of in-
depth weakness research. See Research Gaps.
Comments:
Where feasible, consider children or descendants of this entry instead.
 Notes
Relationship
The "Interaction Error" term, in CWE and elsewhere, is only intended to describe products that behave according to specification.
When one or more of the products do not comply with specifications, then it is more likely to be API Abuse ( CWE-227 ) or an
interpretation conflict ( CWE-436 ). This distinction can be blurred in real world scenarios, especially when "de facto" standards do not
comply with specifications, or when there are no standards but there is widespread adoption. As a result, it can be dif ficult to
distinguish these weaknesses during mapping and classification.
Research Gap
Weaknesses related to this Pillar appear to be under-studied, especially with respect to classification schemes. Input from academic
and other communities could help identify and resolve gaps or organizational dif ficulties within CWE.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Interaction Errors
 References
[REF-428] Thomas H. Ptacek and Timothy N. Newsham. "Insertion, Evasion, and Denial of Service: Eluding Network Intrusion
Detection". 1998-01. < https://insecure.org/stf/secnet\_ids/secnet\_ids.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-568] Taimur Aslam, Ivan Krsul and Eugene H. Spaf ford. "Use of A Taxonomy of Security Faults". 1995-08-01.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
