3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-441: Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/441.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-441: Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
Weakness ID: 441
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives a request, message, or directive from an upstream component, but the product does not suf ficiently preserve
the original source of the request before forwarding the request to an external actor that is outside of the product's control sphere.
This causes the product to appear to be the source of the request, leading it to act as a proxy or other intermediary between the
upstream component and the external actor .
 Extended Description
If an attacker cannot directly contact a target, but the product has access to the target, then the attacker can send a request to the
product and have it be forwarded to the target. The request would appear to be coming from the product's system, not the attacker's
system. As a result, the attacker can bypass access controls (such as firewalls) or hide the source of malicious requests, since the
requests would not be coming directly from the attacker .
Since proxy functionality and message-forwarding often serve a legitimate purpose, this issue only becomes a vulnerability when:
The product runs with dif ferent privileges or on a dif ferent system, or otherwise has dif ferent levels of access than the
upstream component;
The attacker is prevented from making the request directly to the target; and
The attacker can create a request that the proxy does not explicitly intend to be forwarded on the behalf of the requester .
Such a request might point to an unexpected hostname, port number , hardware IP , or service. Or , the request might be sent
to an allowed service, but the request could contain disallowed directives, commands, or resources.
 Alternate T erms
Confused Deputy: This weakness is sometimes referred to as the "Confused deputy" problem, in which an attacker misused
the authority of one victim (the "confused deputy") when targeting another victim.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 610 Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere
ParentOf 918 Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
ParentOf 1021 Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames
PeerOf 611 Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference
CanPrecede 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-441: Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/441.html 2/3
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Hide Activities; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A SoC contains a microcontroller (running ring-3 (least trusted ring) code), a Memory Mapped Input Output (MMIO) mapped IP core
(containing design-house secrets), and a Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller , among several other compute elements and
peripherals. The SoC implements access control to protect the registers in the IP core (which registers store the design-house
secrets) from malicious, ring-3 (least trusted ring) code executing on the microcontroller . The DMA controller , however , is not blocked
off from accessing the IP core for functional reasons.
The weakness here is that the intermediary or the proxy agent did not ensure the immutability of the identity of the microcontroller
initiating the transaction.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-0017 FTP bounce attack. The design of the protocol allows an attacker to modify the POR T command to
cause the FTP server to connect to other machines besides the attacker's.
CVE-1999-0168 RPC portmapper could redirect service requests from an attacker to another entity , which thinks the
requests came from the portmapper .
CVE-2005-0315 FTP server does not ensure that the IP address in a POR T command is the same as the FTP user's
session, allowing port scanning by proxy .
CVE-2002-1484 Web server allows attackers to request a URL from another server , including other ports, which allows
proxied scanning.
CVE-2004-2061 CGI script accepts and retrieves incoming URLs.
CVE-2001-1484 Bounce attack allows access to TFTP from trusted side.
CVE-2010-1637 Web-based mail program allows internal network scanning using a modified POP3 port number .
CVE-2009-0037 URL-downloading library automatically follows redirects to file:// and scp:// URLs
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Enforce the use of strong mutual authentication mechanism between the two parties.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Whenever a product is an intermediary or proxy for transactions between two other components, the proxy core should not drop
the identity of the initiator of the transaction. The immutability of the identity of the initiator must be maintained and should be
forwarded all the way to the target.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The code in ring-3 (least trusted ring) of the microcontroller attempts to directly read the protected registers in IP core through MMIO
transactions. However, this attempt is blocked due to the implemented access control. Now, the microcontroller configures the DMA core
to transfer data from the protected registers to a memory region that it has access to. The DMA core, which is acting as an intermediary in
this transaction, does not preserve the identity of the microcontroller and, instead, initiates a new transaction with its own identity. Since
the DMA core has access, the transaction (and hence, the attack) is successful.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The DMA core forwards this transaction with the identity of the code executing on the microcontroller, which is the original initiator of the
end-to-end transaction. Now the transaction is blocked, as a result of forwarding the identity of the true initiator which lacks the permission
to access the confidential MMIO mapped IP core.3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-441: Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/441.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 956 SFP Secondary Cluster: Channel Attack
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness has a chaining relationship with CWE-668 (Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere) because the proxy ef fectively
provides the attacker with access to the target's resources that the attacker cannot directly obtain.
Theoretical
It could be argued that the "confused deputy" is a fundamental aspect of most vulnerabilities that require an active attacker . Even for
common implementation issues such as buf fer overflows, SQL injection, OS command injection, and path traversal, the vulnerable
program already has the authorization to run code or access files. The vulnerability arises when the attacker causes the program to
run unexpected code or access unexpected files.
Maintenance
This could possibly be considered as an emergent resource.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unintended proxy/intermediary
PLOVER Proxied Trusted Channel
WASC 32 Routing Detour
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-219 XML Routing Detour Attacks
CAPEC-465 Transparent Proxy Abuse
 References
[REF-432] Norm Hardy . "The Confused Deputy (or why capabilities might have been invented)". 1988. < http://www .cap-
lore.com/CapTheory/ConfusedDeputy .html >.
[REF-1125] moparisthebest. "V alidation V ulnerabilities". 2015-06-05.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2020-08-14 Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
Provided demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
