3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1041: Use of Redundant Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1041.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1041: Use of Redundant Code
Weakness ID: 1041
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has multiple functions, methods, procedures, macros, etc. that contain the same code.
 Extended Description
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or time-consuming
to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. For example, if there are two copies of the same code, the programmer might fix a weakness in one
copy while forgetting to fix the same weakness in another copy .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following Java example the code performs some complex math when specific test conditions are met. The math is the same in
each case and the equations are repeated within the code. Unfortunately if a future change needs to be made then that change needs
to be made in all locations. This opens the door to mistakes being made and the changes not being made in the same way in each
instance.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
PROHIBITED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class Main {
public static void main(String[] args) {
double s = 10.0;
double r = 1.0;
double pi = 3.14159;
double surface\_area;
if(r > 0.0) {
// complex math equations
surface\_area = pi \* r \* s + pi \* Math.pow(r, 2);
}
if(r > 1.0) {
// a complex set of math
surface\_area = pi \* r \* s + pi \* Math.pow(r, 2);
}
}
}3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1041: Use of Redundant Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1041.html 2/3It is recommended to place the complex math into its own function and then call that function whenever necessary .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Merge common functionality into a single function and then call that function from across the entire code base.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1130 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Maintainability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: PROHIBITED (this CWE ID must not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This entry is primarily a quality issue with no direct security implications.
Comments:
Look for weaknesses that are focused specifically on insecure behaviors that have more direct security implications.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCMM ASCMM-
MNT -19
 References
[REF-960] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Maintainability Measure (ASCMM)". ASCMM-MNT -19.
2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCMM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public class Main {
private double ComplexMath(double r, double s) {
//complex math equations
double pi = Math.PI;
double surface\_area = pi \* r \* s + pi \* Math.pow(r, 2);
return surface\_area;
}
public static void main(String[] args) {
double s = 10.0;
double r = 1.0;
double surface\_area;
if(r > 0.0) {
surface\_area = ComplexMath(r, s);
}
if(r > 1.0) {
surface\_area = ComplexMath(r, s);
}
}
}3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1041: Use of Redundant Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1041.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-08-15 Drew Buttner
Suggested new demonstrative examples, mitigations, and applicable platforms.
 Modifications