3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-782: Exposed IOCTL with Insuﬃcient Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/782.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-782: Exposed IOCTL with Insufficient Access Control
Weakness ID: 782
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements an IOCTL with functionality that should be restricted, but it does not properly enforce access control for the
IOCTL.
 Extended Description
When an IOCTL contains privileged functionality and is exposed unnecessarily , attackers may be able to access this functionality by
invoking the IOCTL. Even if the functionality is benign, if the programmer has assumed that the IOCTL would only be accessed by a
trusted process, there may be little or no validation of the incoming data, exposing weaknesses that would never be reachable if the
attacker cannot call the IOCTL directly .
The implementations of IOCTLs will dif fer between operating system types and versions, so the methods of attack and prevention
may vary widely .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 749 Exposed Dangerous Method or Function
CanPrecede 781 Improper Address V alidation in IOCTL with METHOD\_NEITHER I/O Control Code
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Operating Systems
Class: Unix (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
Attackers can invoke any functionality that the IOCTL offers. Depending on the functionality , the
consequences may include code execution, denial-of-service, and theft of data.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-2208 Operating system does not enforce permissions on an IOCTL that can be used to modify network
settings.
CVE-2008-3831 Device driver does not restrict ioctl calls to its direct rendering manager .
CVE-2008-3525 ioctl does not check for a required capability before processing certain requests.
CVE-2008-0322 Chain: insecure device permissions allows access to an IOCTL, allowing arbitrary memory to be
overwritten.
CVE-2007-4277 Chain: anti-virus product uses weak permissions for a device, leading to resultant buf fer overflow in an
exposed IOCTL.
CVE-2007-1400 Chain: sandbox allows opening of a TTY device, enabling shell commands through an exposed ioctl.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-782: Exposed IOCTL with Insuﬃcient Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/782.html 2/2CVE-2006-4926 Anti-virus product uses insecure security descriptor for a device driver , allowing access to a privileged
IOCTL.
CVE-1999-0728 Unauthorized user can disable keyboard or mouse by directly invoking a privileged IOCTL.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
In Windows environments, use proper access control for the associated device or device namespace. See References.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can be primary to many other weaknesses when the programmer assumes that the IOCTL can only be accessed by trusted
parties. For example, a program or driver might not validate incoming addresses in METHOD\_NEITHER IOCTLs in Windows
environments ( CWE-781 ), which could allow buf fer overflow and similar attacks to take place, even when the attacker never should
have been able to access the IOCTL at all.
Applicable Platform
Because IOCTL functionality is typically performing low-level actions and closely interacts with the operating system, this weakness
may only appear in code that is written in low-level languages.
 References
[REF-701] Microsoft. "Securing Device Objects". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/controlling-
device-access >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-15
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
