3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-76: Improper Neutralization of Equivalent Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/76.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-76: Improper Neutralization of Equivalent Special Elements
Weakness ID: 76
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product correctly neutralizes certain special elements, but it improperly neutralizes equivalent special elements.
 Extended Description
The product may have a fixed list of special characters it believes is complete. However , there may be alternate encodings, or
representations that also have the same meaning. For example, the product may filter out a leading slash (/) to prevent absolute path
names, but does not account for a tilde (~) followed by a user name, which on some \*nix systems could be expanded to an absolute
pathname. Alternately , the product might filter a dangerous "-e" command-line switch when calling an external program, but it might
not account for "--exec" or other switches that have the same semantics.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 75 Failure to Sanitize Special Elements into a Dif ferent Plane (Special Element Injection)
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Programming languages and supporting technologies might be chosen which are not subject to these issues.
Phase: Implementation
Utilize an appropriate mix of allowlist and denylist parsing to filter equivalent special element syntax from all input.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-76: Improper Neutralization of Equivalent Special Elements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/76.html 2/2MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Equivalent Special Element Injection
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
