3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1273: Device Unlock Credential Sharing (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1273.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1273: Device Unlock Credential Sharing
Weakness ID: 1273
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The credentials necessary for unlocking a device are shared across multiple parties and may expose sensitive information.
 Extended Description
"Unlocking a device" often means activating certain unadvertised debug and manufacturer-specific capabilities of a device using
sensitive credentials. Unlocking a device might be necessary for the purpose of troubleshooting device problems. For example,
suppose a device contains the ability to dump the content of the full system memory by disabling the memory-protection mechanisms.
Since this is a highly security-sensitive capability , this capability is "locked" in the production part. Unless the device gets unlocked by
supplying the proper credentials, the debug capabilities are not available. For cases where the chip designer , chip manufacturer
(fabricator), and manufacturing and assembly testers are all employed by the same company , the risk of compromise of the
credentials is greatly reduced. However , the risk is greater when the chip designer is employed by one company , the chip
manufacturer is employed by another company (a foundry), and the assemblers and testers are employed by yet a third company .
Since these dif ferent companies will need to perform various tests on the device to verify correct device function, they all need to
share the unlock key . Unfortunately , the level of secrecy and policy might be quite dif ferent at each company , greatly increasing the
risk of sensitive credentials being compromised.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1195 Manufacturing and Life Cycle Management Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Integration
Manufacturing
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Compiled (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Other (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
AuthenticationTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Modify Files or Directories; Read Files or Directories; Modify
Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection
Mechanism
Once unlock credentials are compromised, an attacker can use the credentials to unlock the
device and gain unauthorized access to the hidden functionalities protected by those credentials.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1273: Device Unlock Credential Sharing (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1273.html 2/2Authorization
Non-Repudiation
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example shows how an attacker can take advantage of compromised credentials.
When the credentials of multiple organizations are stored together , exposure to third parties occurs frequently .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Integration
Ensure the unlock credentials are shared with the minimum number of parties and with utmost secrecy . To limit the risk
associated with compromised credentials, where possible, the credentials should be part-specific.
Phase: Manufacturing
Ensure the unlock credentials are shared with the minimum number of parties and with utmost secrecy . To limit the risk
associated with compromised credentials, where possible, the credentials should be part-specific.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-560 Use of Known Domain Credentials
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-29
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Parbati Kumar Manna, Hareesh Khattri, Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
 Modifications
(bad code) 
Suppose a semiconductor chipmaker, "C", uses the foundry "F" for fabricating its chips. Now, F has many other customers in addition to C,
and some of the other customers are much smaller companies. F has dedicated teams for each of its customers, but somehow it mixes up
the unlock credentials and sends the unlock credentials of C to the wrong team. This other team does not take adequate precautions to
protect the credentials that have nothing to do with them, and eventually the unlock credentials of C get leaked.
(good code) 
Vertical integration of a production company is one effective method of protecting sensitive credentials. Where vertical integration is not
possible, strict access control and need-to-know are methods which can be implemented to reduce these risks.