3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-185: Incorrect Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/185.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-185: Incorrect Regular Expression
Weakness ID: 185
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product specifies a regular expression in a way that causes data to be improperly matched or compared.
 Extended Description
When the regular expression is used in protection mechanisms such as filtering or validation, this may allow an attacker to bypass the
intended restrictions on the incoming data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 697 Incorrect Comparison
ParentOf 186 Overly Restrictive Regular Expression
ParentOf 625 Permissive Regular Expression
CanPrecede 182 Collapse of Data into Unsafe V alue
CanPrecede 187 Partial String Comparison
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Varies by Context
When the regular expression is not correctly specified, data might have a dif ferent format or type
than the rest of the program expects, producing resultant weaknesses or errors.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
In PHP , regular expression checks can sometimes be bypassed with a null byte, leading to any
number of weaknesses.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code takes phone numbers as input, and uses a regular expression to reject invalid phone numbers.
An attacker could provide an argument such as: "; ls -l ; echo 123-456" This would pass the check, since "123-456" is suf ficient to
match the "\d+-\d+" portion of the regular expression.
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$phone = GetPhoneNumber();
if ($phone =~ /\d+-\d+/) {
# looks like it only has hyphens and digits
system("lookup-phone $phone");
}
else {
error("malformed number!");
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-185: Incorrect Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/185.html 2/3This code uses a regular expression to validate an IP string prior to using it in a call to the "ping" command.
Since the regular expression does not have anchors ( CWE-777 ), i.e. is unbounded without ^ or $ characters, then prepending a 0 or
0x to the beginning of the IP address will still result in a matched regex pattern. Since the ping command supports octal and hex
prepended IP addresses, it will use the unexpectedly valid IP address ( CWE-1389 ). For example, "0x63.63.63.63" would be
considered equivalent to "99.63.63.63". As a result, the attacker could potentially ping systems that the attacker cannot reach directly .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-2109 Regexp isn't "anchored" to the beginning or end, which allows spoofed values that have trusted values
as substrings.
CVE-2005-1949 Regexp for IP address isn't anchored at the end, allowing appending of shell metacharacters.
CVE-2001-1072 Bypass access restrictions via multiple leading slash, which causes a regular expression to fail.
CVE-2000-0115 Local user DoS via invalid regular expressions.
CVE-2002-1527 chain: Malformed input generates a regular expression error that leads to information exposure.
CVE-2005-1061 Certain strings are later used in a regexp, leading to a resultant crash.
CVE-2005-2169 MFV. Regular expression intended to protect against directory traversal reduces ".../...//" to "../".
CVE-2005-0603 Malformed regexp syntax leads to information exposure in error message.
CVE-2005-1820 Code injection due to improper quoting of regular expression.
CVE-2005-3153 Null byte bypasses PHP regexp check.
CVE-2005-4155 Null byte bypasses PHP regexp check.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Refactoring
Regular expressions can become error prone when defining a complex language even for those experienced in writing
grammars. Determine if several smaller regular expressions simplify one large regular expression. Also, subject the regular
expression to thorough testing techniques such as equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis, and robustness. After
testing and a reasonable confidence level is achieved, a regular expression may not be foolproof. If an exploit is allowed to slip
through, then record the exploit and refactor the regular expression.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import subprocess
import re
def validate\_ip\_regex(ip: str):
ip\_validator = re.compile(r"((25[0-5]|(2[0-4]|1\d|[1-9]|)\d)\.?\b){4}")
if ip\_validator.match(ip):
return ip
else:
raise ValueError("IP address does not match valid pattern.")
def run\_ping\_regex(ip: str):
validated = validate\_ip\_regex(ip)
# The ping command treats zero-prepended IP addresses as octal
result = subprocess.call(["ping", validated])
print(result)3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-185: Incorrect Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/185.html 3/3This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
While there is some overlap with allowlist/denylist problems, this entry is intended to deal with incorrectly written regular
expressions, regardless of their intended use. Not every regular expression is intended for use as an allowlist or denylist. In addition,
allowlists and denylists can be implemented using other mechanisms besides regular expressions.
Research Gap
Regexp errors are likely a primary factor in many MFVs, especially those that require multiple manipulations to exploit. However ,
they are rarely diagnosed at this level of detail.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Regular Expression Error
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-15 Command Delimiters
CAPEC-6 Argument Injection
CAPEC-79 Using Slashes in Alternate Encoding
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 10, "Using Regular Expressions for Checking Input"
Page 350. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names