3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-625: Permissive Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/625.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-625: Permissive Regular Expression
Weakness ID: 625
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a regular expression that does not suf ficiently restrict the set of allowed values.
 Extended Description
This ef fectively causes the regexp to accept substrings that match the pattern, which produces a partial comparison to the target. In
some cases, this can lead to other weaknesses. Common errors include:
not identifying the beginning and end of the target string
using wildcards instead of acceptable character ranges
others
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 185 Incorrect Regular Expression
ParentOf 777 Regular Expression without Anchors
PeerOf 183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs
PeerOf 184 Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
PeerOf 187 Partial String Comparison
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThis problem is frequently found when the regular expression is used in input validation or security features such
as authentication.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Perl (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code takes phone numbers as input, and uses a regular expression to reject invalid phone numbers.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$phone = GetPhoneNumber();
if ($phone =~ /\d+-\d+/) {
# looks like it only has hyphens and digits
system("lookup-phone $phone");
}
else {
error("malformed number!");
}3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-625: Permissive Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/625.html 2/3An attacker could provide an argument such as: "; ls -l ; echo 123-456" This would pass the check, since "123-456" is suf ficient to
match the "\d+-\d+" portion of the regular expression.
Example 2
This code uses a regular expression to validate an IP string prior to using it in a call to the "ping" command.
Since the regular expression does not have anchors ( CWE-777 ), i.e. is unbounded without ^ or $ characters, then prepending a 0 or
0x to the beginning of the IP address will still result in a matched regex pattern. Since the ping command supports octal and hex
prepended IP addresses, it will use the unexpectedly valid IP address ( CWE-1389 ). For example, "0x63.63.63.63" would be
considered equivalent to "99.63.63.63". As a result, the attacker could potentially ping systems that the attacker cannot reach directly .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-22204 Chain: regex in EXIF processor code does not correctly determine where a string ends ( CWE-625 ),
enabling eval injection ( CWE-95 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2006-1895 ".\*" regexp leads to static code injection
CVE-2002-2175 insertion of username into regexp results in partial comparison, causing wrong database entry to be
updated when one username is a substring of another .
CVE-2006-4527 regexp intended to verify that all characters are legal, only checks that at least one is legal, enabling
file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1949 Regexp for IP address isn't anchored at the end, allowing appending of shell metacharacters.
CVE-2002-2109 Regexp isn't "anchored" to the beginning or end, which allows spoofed values that have trusted values
as substrings.
CVE-2006-6511 regexp in .htaccess file allows access of files whose names contain certain substrings
CVE-2006-6629 allow load of macro files whose names contain certain substrings.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
When applicable, ensure that the regular expression marks beginning and ending string patterns, such as "/^string$/" for Perl.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
}
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import subprocess
import re
def validate\_ip\_regex(ip: str):
ip\_validator = re.compile(r"((25[0-5]|(2[0-4]|1\d|[1-9]|)\d)\.?\b){4}")
if ip\_validator.match(ip):
return ip
else:
raise ValueError("IP address does not match valid pattern.")
def run\_ping\_regex(ip: str):
validated = validate\_ip\_regex(ip)
# The ping command treats zero-prepended IP addresses as octal
result = subprocess.call(["ping", validated])
print(result)3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-625: Permissive Regular Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/625.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS08-J Sanitize untrusted data passed to a regex
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "Character
Stripping V ulnerabilities", Page 437. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications