3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/502.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data
Weakness ID: 502
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product deserializes untrusted data without suf ficiently verifying that the resulting data will be valid.
 Extended Description
It is often convenient to serialize objects for communication or to save them for later use. However , deserialized data or code can
often be modified without using the provided accessor functions if it does not use cryptography to protect itself. Furthermore, any
cryptography would still be client-side security -- which is a dangerous security assumption.
Data that is untrusted can not be trusted to be well-formed.
When developers place no restrictions on "gadget chains," or series of instances and method invocations that can self-execute during
the deserialization process (i.e., before the object is returned to the caller), it is sometimes possible for attackers to leverage them to
perform unauthorized actions, like generating a shell.
 Alternate T erms
Marshaling, Unmarshaling: Marshaling and unmarshaling are ef fectively synonyms for serialization and deserialization,
respectively .
Pickling, Unpickling: In Python, the "pickle" functionality is used to perform serialization and deserialization.
PHP Object Injection: Some PHP application researchers use this term when attacking unsafe use of the unserialize()
function; but it is also used for CWE-915 .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 913 Improper Control of Dynamically-Managed Code Resources
PeerOf 915 Improperly Controlled Modification of Dynamically-Determined Object Attributes
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Serialization and deserialization refer to the process of taking program-internal object-related data, packaging it in a way that allows
the data to be externally stored or transferred ("serialization"), then extracting the serialized data to reconstruct the original object
("deserialization").
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
Ruby (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
TechnologiesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/502.html 2/4Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Unexpected State
Attackers can modify unexpected objects or data that was assumed to be safe from modification.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
If a function is making an assumption on when to terminate, based on a sentry in a string, it could easily
never terminate.
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
The consequences can vary widely , because it depends on which objects or methods are being
deserialized, and how they are used. Making an assumption that the code in the deserialized object is
valid is dangerous and can enable exploitation.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code snippet deserializes an object from a file and uses it as a UI button:
This code does not attempt to verify the source or contents of the file before deserializing it. An attacker may be able to replace the
intended file with a file that contains arbitrary malicious code which will be executed when the button is pressed.
To mitigate this, explicitly define final readObject() to prevent deserialization. An example of this is:
Example 2
In Python, the Pickle library handles the serialization and deserialization processes. In this example derived from [ REF-467 ], the code
receives and parses data, and afterwards tries to authenticate a user based on validating a token.
Unfortunately , the code does not verify that the incoming data is legitimate. An attacker can construct a illegitimate, serialized object
"AuthT oken" that instantiates one of Python's subprocesses to execute arbitrary commands. For instance,the attacker could construct
a pickle that leverages Python's subprocess module, which spawns new processes and includes a number of arguments for various
uses. Since Pickle allows objects to define the process for how they should be unpickled, the attacker can direct the unpickle process
to call Popen in the subprocess module and execute /bin/sh.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
File file = new File("object.obj");
ObjectInputStream in = new ObjectInputStream(new FileInputStream(file));
javax.swing.JButton button = (javax.swing.JButton) in.readObject();
in.close();
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
private final void readObject(ObjectInputStream in) throws java.io.IOException {
throw new java.io.IOException("Cannot be deserialized"); }
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
try {
class ExampleProtocol(protocol.Protocol):
def dataReceived(self, data):
# Code that would be here would parse the incoming data
# After receiving headers, call confirmAuth() to authenticate
def confirmAuth(self, headers):
try:
token = cPickle.loads(base64.b64decode(headers['AuthToken']))
if not check\_hmac(token['signature'], token['data'], getSecretKey()):
raise AuthFail
self.secure\_data = token['data']
except:
raise AuthFail
}3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/502.html 3/4CVE-2019-12799 chain: bypass of untrusted deserialization issue ( CWE-502 ) by using an assumed-trusted class ( CWE-
183)
CVE-2015-8103 Deserialization issue in commonly-used Java library allows remote execution.
CVE-2015-4852 Deserialization issue in commonly-used Java library allows remote execution.
CVE-2013-1465 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input allows attacker to modify application configuration.
CVE-2012-3527 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input in content management system might allow code
execution.
CVE-2012-0911 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input in content management system allows code
execution using a crafted cookie value.
CVE-2012-0911 Content management system written in PHP allows unserialize of arbitrary objects, possibly allowing
code execution.
CVE-2011-2520 Python script allows local users to execute code via pickled data.
CVE-2012-4406 Unsafe deserialization using pickle in a Python script.
CVE-2003-0791 Web browser allows execution of native methods via a crafted string to a JavaScript function that
deserializes the string.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If available, use the signing/sealing features of the programming language to assure that deserialized data has not been tainted.
For example, a hash-based message authentication code (HMAC) could be used to ensure that data has not been modified.
Phase: Implementation
When deserializing data, populate a new object rather than just deserializing. The result is that the data flows through safe input
validation and that the functions are safe.
Phase: Implementation
Explicitly define a final object() to prevent deserialization.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Make fields transient to protect them from deserialization.
An attempt to serialize and then deserialize a class containing transient fields will result in NULLs where the transient data
should be. This is an excellent way to prevent time, environment-based, or sensitive variables from being carried over and used
improperly .
Phase: Implementation
Avoid having unnecessary types or gadgets available that can be leveraged for malicious ends. This limits the potential for
unintended or unauthorized types and gadgets to be leveraged by the attacker . Add only acceptable classes to an allowlist.
Note: new gadgets are constantly being discovered, so this alone is not a suf ficient mitigation.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 994 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to V ariable
MemberOf 1034 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A8 - Insecure Deserialization
MemberOf 1148 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 14. Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/502.html 4/4Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The relationships between CWE-502 and CWE-915 need further exploration. CWE-915 is more narrowly scoped to object
modification, and is not necessarily used for deserialization.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
CLASP Deserialization of untrusted data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER01-J Do not deviate from the proper signatures of serialization methods
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER03-J Do not serialize unencrypted, sensitive data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER06-J Make defensive copies of private mutable components during
deserialization
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER08-J Do not use the default serialized form for implementation defined invariants
Software Fault Patterns SFP25 Tainted input to variable
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-586 Object Injection
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-461] Matthias Kaiser . "Exploiting Deserialization V ulnerabilities in Java". 2015-10-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-462] Sam Thomas. "PHP unserialization vulnerabilities: What are we missing?". 2015-08-27.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-463] Gabriel Lawrence and Chris Frohof f. "Marshalling Pickles: How deserializing objects can ruin your day". 2015-01-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-464] Heine Deelstra. "Unserializing user-supplied data, a bad idea". 2010-08-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-465] Manish S. Saindane. "Black Hat EU 2010 - Attacking Java Serialized Communication". 2010-04-26.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-466] Nadia Alramli. "Why Python Pickle is Insecure". 2009-09-09. < http://michael-rushanan.blogspot.com/2012/10/why-
python-pickle-is-insecure.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-467] Nelson Elhage. "Exploiting misuse of Python's "pickle"". 2011-03-20. < https://blog.nelhage.com/2011/03/exploiting-
pickle/ >.
[REF-468] Chris Frohof f. "Deserialize My Shorts: Or How I Learned to Start W orrying and Hate Java Object Deserialization".
2016-03-21. < https://speakerdeck.com/frohof f/owasp-sd-deserialize-my-shorts-or-how-i-learned-to-start-worrying-and-hate-java-
object-deserialization >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications