3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1193: Power-On of Untrusted Execution Core Before Enabling Fabric Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1193.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1193: Power-On of Untrusted Execution Core Before Enabling Fabric Access
Control
Weakness ID: 1193
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product enables components that contain untrusted firmware before memory and fabric access controls have been enabled.
 Extended Description
After initial reset, System-on-Chip (SoC) fabric access controls and other security features need to be programmed by trusted
firmware as part of the boot sequence. If untrusted IPs or peripheral microcontrollers are enabled first, then the untrusted component
can master transactions on the hardware bus and target memory or other assets to compromise the SoC boot firmware.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 696 Incorrect Behavior Order
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
An untrusted component can master transactions on the HW bus and target memory or other
assets to compromise the SoC boot firmware.High
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The boot sequence should enable fabric access controls and memory protections before enabling third-party hardware IPs and
peripheral microcontrollers that use untrusted firmware.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1193: Power-On of Untrusted Execution Core Before Enabling Fabric Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1193.html 2/2CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 References
[REF-1130] Mark Ermolov , Positive Technologies. "Intel x86 Root of Trust: loss of trust". 2020-03-05.
.
[REF-1042] Maximillian Dornseif. "Owned by an iPod". 2004.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications