3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-215: Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Debugging Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/215.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-215: Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Debugging Code
Weakness ID: 215
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product inserts sensitive information into debugging code, which could expose this information if the debugging code is not
disabled in production.
 Extended Description
When debugging, it may be necessary to report detailed information to the programmer . However , if the debugging code is not
disabled when the product is operating in a production environment, then this sensitive information may be exposed to attackers.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
CanFollow 489 Active Debug Code
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following program changes its behavior based on a debug flag.
The code writes sensitive debug information to the client browser if the "debugEnabled" flag is set to true .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-2268 Password exposed in debug information.
CVE-2002-0918 CGI script includes sensitive information in debug messages when an error is triggered.
CVE-2003-1078 FTP client with debug option enabled shows password to the screen.
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JSP 
<% if (Boolean.getBoolean("debugEnabled")) {
%>
User account number: <%= acctNo %>
<%
} %>3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-215: Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Debugging Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/215.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Do not leave debug statements that could be executed in the source code. Ensure that all debug information is eradicated
before releasing the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 717 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A6 - Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 933 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A5 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This overlaps other categories.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Infoleak Using Debug Information
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A6 CWE More Specific Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A10 CWE More Specific Insecure Configuration Management
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
