3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-482: Comparing instead of Assigning (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/482.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-482: Comparing instead of Assigning
Weakness ID: 482
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses an operator for comparison when the intention was to perform an assignment.
 Extended Description
In many languages, the compare statement is very close in appearance to the assignment statement; they are often confused.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 480 Use of Incorrect Operator
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation This bug primarily originates from a typo.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
The assignment will not take place, which should cause obvious program execution problems.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 2
The following C/C++ example shows a simple implementation of a stack that includes methods for adding and removing integer
values from the stack. The example uses pointers to add and remove integer values to the stack array variable.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
void called(int foo) {
foo==1;
if (foo==1) System.out.println("foo\n");
}
int main() {
called(2);
return 0;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define SIZE 50
int \*tos, \*p1, stack[SIZE];3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-482: Comparing instead of Assigning (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/482.html 2/3The push method includes an expression to assign the integer value to the location in the stack pointed to by the pointer variable.
However , this expression uses the comparison operator "==" rather than the assignment operator "=". The result of using the
comparison operator instead of the assignment operator causes erroneous values to be entered into the stack and can cause
unexpected results.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Many IDEs and static analysis products will detect this problem.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 747 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 14 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 886 SFP Primary Cluster: Unused entities
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Comparing instead of assigning
Software Fault Patterns SFP2 Unused Entities
 References
void push(int i) {
p1++;
if(p1==(tos+SIZE)) {
// Print stack overflow error message and exit
}
\*p1 == i;
}
int pop(void) {
if(p1==tos) {
// Print stack underflow error message and exit
}
p1--;
return \*(p1+1);
}
int main(int argc, char \*argv[]) {
// initialize tos and p1 to point to the top of stack
tos = stack;
p1 = stack;
// code to add and remove items from stack
...
return 0;
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-482: Comparing instead of Assigning (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/482.html 3/3[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ypos", Page
289. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications