3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1281: Sequence of Processor Instructions Leads to Unexpected Behavior (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1281.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1281: Sequence of Processor Instructions Leads to Unexpected Behavior
Weakness ID: 1281
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Specific combinations of processor instructions lead to undesirable behavior such as locking the processor until a hard reset
performed.
 Extended Description
If the instruction set architecture (ISA) and processor logic are not designed carefully and tested thoroughly , certain combinations of
instructions may lead to locking the processor or other unexpected and undesirable behavior . Upon encountering unimplemented
instruction opcodes or illegal instruction operands, the processor should throw an exception and carry on without negatively impacting
security . However , specific combinations of legal and illegal instructions may cause unexpected behavior with security implications
such as allowing unprivileged programs to completely lock the CPU.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1201 Core and Compute Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design Unexpected behavior from certain instruction combinations can arise from bugs in the ISA
ImplementationUnexpected behavior from certain instruction combinations can arise because of implementation details
such as speculative execution, caching etc.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The Pentium F00F bug is a real-world example of how a sequence of instructions can lock a processor . The "cmpxchg8b" instruction
compares contents of registers with a memory location. The operand is expected to be a memory location, but in the bad code snippet
it is the eax register . Because the specified operand is illegal, an exception is generated, which is the correct behavior and not a
security issue in itself. However , when prefixed with the "lock" instruction, the processor deadlocks because locked memory
transactions require a read and write pair of transactions to occur before the lock on the memory bus is released. The exception
causes a read to occur but there is no corresponding write, as there would have been if a legal operand had been supplied to the
cmpxchg8b instruction. [ REF-1331 ]About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1281: Sequence of Processor Instructions Leads to Unexpected Behavior (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1281.html 2/3Example 2
The Cyrix Coma bug was capable of trapping a Cyrix 6x86, 6x86L, or 6x86MX processor in an infinite loop. An infinite loop on a
processor is not necessarily an issue on its own, as interrupts could stop the loop. However , on select Cyrix processors, the x86
Assembly 'xchg' instruction was designed to prevent interrupts. On these processors, if the loop was such that a new 'xchg' instruction
entered the instruction pipeline before the previous one exited, the processor would become deadlocked. [ REF-1323 ]
Example 3
The Motorola MC6800 microprocessor contained the first documented instance of a Halt and Catch Fire instruction - an instruction
that causes the normal function of a processor to stop. If the MC6800 was given the opcode 0x9D or 0xDD, the processor would
begin to read all memory very quickly , in sequence, and without executing any other instructions. This will cause the processor to
become unresponsive to anything but a hard reset. [ REF-1324 ]
Example 4
The example code is taken from the commit stage inside the processor core of the HACK@DAC'19 buggy CV A6 SoC [ REF-1342 ]. To
ensure the correct execution of atomic instructions, the CPU must guarantee atomicity: no other device overwrites the memory
location between the atomic read starts and the atomic write finishes. Another device may overwrite the memory location only before
the read operation or after the write operation, but never between them, and finally , the content will still be consistent.
Atomicity is especially critical when the variable to be modified is a mutex, counting semaphore, or similar piece of data that controls
access to shared resources. Failure to ensure atomicity may result in two processors accessing a shared resource simultaneously ,
permanent lock-up, or similar disastrous behavior .
The above vulnerable code checks for CSR interrupts and gives them precedence over any other exception. However , the interrupts
should not occur when the processor runs a series of atomic instructions. In the above vulnerable code, the required check must be
included to ensure the processor is not in the middle of a series of atomic instructions.
Refrain from interrupting if the intention is to commit an atomic instruction that should not be interrupted. This can be done by adding
a condition to check whether the current committing instruction is atomic. [ REF-1343 ]
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-26339 A bug in AMD CPU's core logic allows a potential DoS by using a specific x86 instruction sequence to
hang the processor
CVE-1999-1476 A bug in some Intel Pentium processors allow DoS (hang) via an invalid "CMPXCHG8B" instruction,
causing a deadlock
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Implement a rigorous testing strategy that incorporates randomization to explore instruction sequences that are unlikely to
appear in normal workloads in order to identify halt and catch fire instruction sequences.
Phase: Patching and Maintenance
Patch operating system to avoid running Halt and Catch Fire type sequences or to mitigate the damage caused by unexpected
behavior . See [ REF-1108 ].
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
(bad code) Example Language: x86 Assembly 
lock cmpxchg8b eax
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
if (csr\_exception\_i.valid && csr\_exception\_i.cause[63] && commit\_instr\_i[0].fu != CSR) begin
exception\_o = csr\_exception\_i;
exception\_o.tval = commit\_instr\_i[0].ex.tval;
end
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
if (csr\_exception\_i.valid && csr\_exception\_i.cause[63] && !amo\_valid\_commit\_o && commit\_instr\_i[0].fu != CSR) begin
exception\_o = csr\_exception\_i;
exception\_o.tval = commit\_instr\_i[0].ex.tval;
end3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1281: Sequence of Processor Instructions Leads to Unexpected Behavior (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1281.html 3/3Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-212 Functionality Misuse
 References
[REF-1094] Christopher Domas. "Breaking the x86 ISA".
.
[REF-1108] Intel Corporation. "Deep Dive: Retpoline: A Branch Target Injection Mitigation".
. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-1323] "Cyrix coma bug". Wikipedia. 2006-03-22. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyrix\_coma\_bug >.
[REF-1324] Gary Wheeler . "Undocumented M6800 Instructions". 1977-12. < https://spivey .oriel.ox.ac.uk/wiki/images-
corner/1/1a/Undoc6800.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-20 .
[REF-1331] Robert R. Collins. "The Pentium F00F Bug". 1998-05-01. < https://www .drdobbs.com/embedded-systems/the-pentium-
f00f-bug/184410555 >. URL validated: 2023-04-25 .
[REF-1342] "Hackatdac19 commit\_stage.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/619e9fb0ef32ee1e01ad76b8732a156572c65700/src/commit\_stage.sv#L287:L290 >. URL validated:
2023-06-21 .
[REF-1343] Florian Zaruba, Michael Schaf fner, Stefan Mach and Andreas Traber . "commit\_stage.sv". 2018.
.
URL validated: 2023-06-21 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-15
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
contributed to observed example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names