3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-309: Use of Password System for Primary Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/309.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-309: Use of Password System for Primary Authentication
Weakness ID: 309
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The use of password systems as the primary means of authentication may be subject to several flaws or shortcomings, each reducing
the ef fectiveness of the mechanism.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 654 Reliance on a Single Factor in a Security Decision
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
PeerOf 262 Not Using Password Aging
PeerOf 308 Use of Single-factor Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Background Details
Password systems are the simplest and most ubiquitous authentication mechanisms. However , they are subject to such well known
attacks,and such frequent compromise that their use in the most simple implementation is not practical.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
A password authentication mechanism error will almost always result in attackers being authorized
as valid users.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In both of these examples, a user is logged in if their given password matches a stored password:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned char \*check\_passwd(char \*plaintext) {
ctext = simple\_digest("sha1",plaintext,strlen(plaintext), ... );
//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(ctext, secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-309: Use of Password System for Primary Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/309.html 2/3This code relies exclusively on a password mechanism ( CWE-309 ) using only one factor of authentication ( CWE-308 ). If an attacker
can steal or guess a user's password, they are given full access to their account. Note this code also uses SHA-1, which is a weak
hash ( CWE-328 ). It also does not use a salt ( CWE-759 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
In order to protect password systems from compromise, the following should be noted:
Passwords should be stored safely to prevent insider attack and to ensure that -- if a system is compromised -- the
passwords are not retrievable. Due to password reuse, this information may be useful in the compromise of other
systems these users work with. In order to protect these passwords, they should be stored encrypted, in a non-
reversible state, such that the original text password cannot be extracted from the stored value.
Password aging should be strictly enforced to ensure that passwords do not remain unchanged for long periods of time.
The longer a password remains in use, the higher the probability that it has been compromised. For this reason,
passwords should require refreshing periodically , and users should be informed of the risk of passwords which remain in
use for too long.
Password strength should be enforced intelligently . Rather than restrict passwords to specific content, or specific length,
users should be encouraged to use upper and lower case letters, numbers, and symbols in their passwords. The
system should also ensure that no passwords are derived from dictionary words.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a zero-knowledge password protocol, such as SRP .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that passwords are stored safely and are not reversible.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Implement password aging functionality that requires passwords be changed after a certain point.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a mechanism for determining the strength of a password and notify the user of weak password use.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Inform the user of why password protections are in place, how they work to protect data integrity , and why it is important to heed
their warnings.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 947 SFP Secondary Cluster: Authentication Bypass
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Using password systems
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
String plainText = new String(plainTextIn);
MessageDigest encer = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA");
encer.update(plainTextIn);
byte[] digest = password.digest();
//Login if hash matches stored hash
if (equal(digest,secret\_password())) {
login\_user();
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-309: Use of Password System for Primary Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/309.html 3/3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-16 Dictionary-based Password Attack
CAPEC-49 Password Brute Forcing
CAPEC-509 Kerberoasting
CAPEC-55 Rainbow Table Password Cracking
CAPEC-555 Remote Services with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-560 Use of Known Domain Credentials
CAPEC-561 Windows Admin Shares with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-565 Password Spraying
CAPEC-600 Credential Stuf fing
CAPEC-652 Use of Known Kerberos Credentials
CAPEC-653 Use of Known Operating System Credentials
CAPEC-70 Try Common or Default Usernames and Passwords
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names