3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-187: Partial String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/187.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-187: Partial String Comparison
Weakness ID: 187
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a comparison that only examines a portion of a factor before determining whether there is a match, such as a
substring, leading to resultant weaknesses.
 Extended Description
For example, an attacker might succeed in authentication by providing a small password that matches the associated portion of the
larger , correct password.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1023 Incomplete Comparison with Missing Factors
PeerOf 625 Permissive Regular Expression
CanFollow 185 Incorrect Regular Expression
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example defines a fixed username and password. The AuthenticateUser() function is intended to accept a username and a
password from an untrusted user , and check to ensure that it matches the username and password. If the username and password
match, AuthenticateUser() is intended to indicate that authentication succeeded.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
/\* Ignore CWE-259 (hard-coded password) and CWE-309 (use of password system for authentication) for this example. \*/
char \*username = "admin";
char \*pass = "password";
int AuthenticateUser(char \*inUser, char \*inPass) {
if (strncmp(username, inUser, strlen(inUser))) {
logEvent("Auth failure of username using strlen of inUser");
return(AUTH\_FAIL);
}
if (! strncmp(pass, inPass, strlen(inPass))) {
logEvent("Auth success of password using strlen of inUser");
return(AUTH\_SUCCESS);
}
else {
logEvent("Auth fail of password using sizeof");
return(AUTH\_FAIL);
}
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-187: Partial String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/187.html 2/3In AuthenticateUser(), the strncmp() call uses the string length of an attacker-provided inPass parameter in order to determine how
many characters to check in the password. So, if the attacker only provides a password of length 1, the check will only examine the
first byte of the application's password before determining success.
As a result, this partial comparison leads to improper authentication ( CWE-287 ).
Any of these passwords would still cause authentication to succeed for the "admin" user:
This significantly reduces the search space for an attacker , making brute force attacks more feasible.
The same problem also applies to the username, so values such as "a" and "adm" will succeed for the username.
While this demonstrative example may not seem realistic, see the Observed Examples for CVE entries that ef fectively reflect this
same weakness.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2014-6394 Product does not prevent access to restricted directories due to partial string comparison with a public
directory
CVE-2004-1012 Argument parser of an IMAP server treats a partial command "body[p" as if it is "body .peek", leading to
index error and out-of-bounds corruption.
CVE-2004-0765 Web browser only checks the hostname portion of a certificate when the hostname portion of the URI is
not a fully qualified domain name (FQDN), which allows remote attackers to spoof trusted certificates.
CVE-2002-1374 One-character password by attacker checks only against first character of real password.
CVE-2000-0979 One-character password by attacker checks only against first character of real password.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Thoroughly test the comparison scheme before deploying code into production. Perform positive testing as well as negative
testing.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
}
int main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
int authResult;
if (argc < 3) {
ExitError("Usage: Provide a username and password");
}
authResult = AuthenticateUser(argv[1], argv[2]);
if (authResult == AUTH\_SUCCESS) {
DoAuthenticatedTask(argv[1]);
}
else {
ExitError("Authentication failed");
}
}
(attack code) 
p
pa
pas
pass3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-187: Partial String Comparison (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/187.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is conceptually similar to other weaknesses, such as insuf ficient verification and regular expression errors. It is primary to some
weaknesses.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Partial Comparison
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names