3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1022: Use of Web Link to Untrusted Target with window.opener Access (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1022.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1022: Use of W eb Link to Untrusted T arget with window .opener Access
Weakness ID: 1022
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application produces links to untrusted external sites outside of its sphere of control, but it does not properly prevent the
external site from modifying security-critical properties of the window .opener object, such as the location property .
 Extended Description
When a user clicks a link to an external site ("target"), the target="\_blank" attribute causes the target site's contents to be opened in a
new window or tab, which runs in the same process as the original page. The window .opener object records information about the
original page that of fered the link. If an attacker can run script on the target page, then they could read or modify certain properties of
the window .opener object, including the location property - even if the original and target site are not the same origin. An attacker can
modify the location property to automatically redirect the user to a malicious site, e.g. as part of a phishing attack. Since this redirect
happens in the original window/tab - which is not necessarily visible, since the browser is focusing the display on the new target page
- the user might not notice any suspicious redirection.
 Alternate T erms
tabnabbing
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 266 Incorrect Privilege Assignment
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness is introduced during the design of an application when the architect does not specify that
a linked external document should not be able to alter the location of the calling page.
ImplementationThis weakness is introduced during the coding of an application when the developer does not include
the noopener and/or noreferrer value for the rel attribute.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
JavaScript (Often Prevalent)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic
The user may be redirected to an untrusted page that contains undesired content or malicious script
code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, the application opens a link in a named window/tab without taking precautions to prevent the called page from
tampering with the calling page's location in the browser .
There are two ways that this weakness is commonly seen. The first is when the application generates an tag is with
target="\_blank" to point to a target site:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: HTML 3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1022: Use of Web Link to Untrusted Target with window.opener Access (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1022.html 2/3If the attacker of fers a useful page on this link (or compromises a trusted, popular site), then a user may click on this link. However ,
the attacker could use scripting code to modify the window .opener's location property to redirect the application to a malicious,
attacker-controlled page - such as one that mimics the look and feel of the original application and convinces the user to re-enter
authentication credentials, i.e. phishing:
To mitigate this type of weakness, some browsers support the "rel" attribute with a value of "noopener", which sets the window .opener
object equal to null. Another option is to use the "rel" attribute with a value of "noreferrer", which in essence does the same thing.
A second way that this weakness is commonly seen is when opening a new site directly within JavaScript. In this case, a new site is
opened using the window .open() function.
To mitigate this, set the window .opener object to null.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-4927 Library software does not use rel: "noopener noreferrer" setting, allowing tabnabbing attacks to redirect
to a malicious page
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Specify in the design that any linked external document must not be granted access to the location object of the calling page.
Phase: Implementation
When creating a link to an external document using the tag with a defined target, for example "\_blank" or a named frame,
provide the rel attribute with a value "noopener noreferrer".
If opening the external document in a new window via javascript, then reset the opener by setting it equal to null.
Phase: Implementation
Do not use "\_blank" targets. However , this can af fect the usability of the application.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
[(attack code) Example Language: JavaScript 
window.opener.location = 'http://phishing.example.org/popular-bank-page';
(good code) Example Language: HTML 
[(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var newWindow = window.open("http://attacker-site.example.com/useful-page.html", "\_blank");
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
var newWindow = window.open("http://attacker-site.example.com/useful-page.html", "\_blank");
newWindow.opener = null;3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1022: Use of Web Link to Untrusted Target with window.opener Access (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1022.html 3/3Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-39] Alex Yumashev . "Target="\_blank" - the most underestimated vulnerability ever". 2016-05-04.
.
[REF-40] Ben Halpern. "The target="\_blank" vulnerability by example". 2016-09-11. < https://dev .to/ben/the-targetblank-
vulnerability-by-example >.
[REF-958] Mathias Bynens. "About rel=noopener". 2016-03-15. < https://mathiasbynens.github.io/rel-noopener/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2017-09-26
(CWE 2.12, 2017-11-08)David Deatherage Silicon V alley Bank
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names](http://attacker-site.example.com/useful-page.html)](http://attacker-site.example.com/useful-page.html)