3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-521: Weak Password Requirements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/521.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-521: W eak Password Requirements
Weakness ID: 521
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not require that users should have strong passwords, which makes it easier for attackers to compromise user
accounts.
 Extended Description
Authentication mechanisms often rely on a memorized secret (also known as a password) to provide an assertion of identity for a user
of a system. It is therefore important that this password be of suf ficient complexity and impractical for an adversary to guess. The
specific requirements around how complex a password needs to be depends on the type of system being protected. Selecting the
correct password requirements and enforcing them through implementation are critical to the overall success of the authentication
mechanism.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1391 Use of W eak Credentials
ParentOf 258 Empty Password in Configuration File
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
ImplementationNot enforcing the password policy stated in a products design can allow users to create passwords that
do not provide the necessary level of protection.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could easily guess user passwords and gain access user accounts.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-4574 key server application does not require strong passwords
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
A product's design should require adherance to an appropriate password policy . Specific password requirements depend
strongly on contextual factors, but it is recommended to contain the following attributes:
Enforcement of a minimum and maximum lengthAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-521: Weak Password Requirements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/521.html 2/3Restrictions against password reuse
Restrictions against using common passwords
Restrictions against using contextual string in the password (e.g., user id, app name)
Depending on the threat model, the password policy may include several additional attributes.
Complex passwords requiring mixed character sets (alpha, numeric, special, mixed case)
Increasing the range of characters makes the password harder to crack and may be appropriate for systems
relying on single factor authentication.
Unfortunately , a complex password may be dif ficult to memorize, encouraging a user to select a short password
or to incorrectly manage the password (write it down).
Another disadvantage of this approach is that it often does not result in a significant increases in overal
password complexity due to people's predictable usage of various symbols.
Large Minimum Length (encouraging passphrases instead of passwords)
Increasing the number of characters makes the password harder to crack and may be appropriate for systems
relying on single factor authentication.
A disadvantage of this approach is that selecting a good passphrase is not easy and poor passwords can still
be generated. Some prompting may be needed to encourage long un-predictable passwords.
Randomly Chosen Secrets
Generating a password for the user can help make sure that length and complexity requirements are met, and
can result in secure passwords being used.
A disadvantage of this approach is that the resulting password or passpharse may be too dif ficult to memorize,
encouraging them to be written down.
Password Expiration
Requiring a periodic password change can reduce the time window that an adversary has to crack a password,
while also limiting the damage caused by password exposures at other locations.
Password expiration may be a good mitigating technique when long complex passwords are not desired.
See NIST 800-63B [ REF-1053 ] for further information on password requirements.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider a second authentication factor beyond the password, which prevents the password from being a single point of failure.
See CWE-308 for further information.
Phase: Implementation
Consider implementing a password complexity meter to inform users when a chosen password meets the required attributes.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 951 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Authentication Policy
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-521: Weak Password Requirements (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/521.html 3/3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-112 Brute Force
CAPEC-16 Dictionary-based Password Attack
CAPEC-49 Password Brute Forcing
CAPEC-509 Kerberoasting
CAPEC-55 Rainbow Table Password Cracking
CAPEC-555 Remote Services with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-561 Windows Admin Shares with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-565 Password Spraying
CAPEC-70 Try Common or Default Usernames and Passwords
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1053] NIST . "Digital Identity Guidelines (SP 800-63B)". Sections: 5.1.1, 10.2.1, and Appendix A. 2017-06.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications