3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-703: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/703.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-703: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
Weakness ID: 703
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly anticipate or handle exceptional conditions that rarely occur during normal operation of the product.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1000 Research Concepts
ParentOf 228 Improper Handling of Syntactically Invalid Structure
ParentOf 393 Return of W rong Status Code
ParentOf 397 Declaration of Throws for Generic Exception
ParentOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
ParentOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ParentOf 1384 Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Unexpected State
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following code segment:
The programmer expects that when fgets() returns, buf will contain a null-terminated string of length 9 or less. But if an I/O error
occurs, fgets() will not null-terminate buf. Furthermore, if the end of the file is reached before any characters are read, fgets() returns
without writing anything to buf. In both of these situations, fgets() signals that something unusual has happened by returning NULL,
but in this code, the warning will not be noticed. The lack of a null terminator in buf can result in a buf fer overflow in the subsequent
call to strcpy().
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Pillar
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char buf[10], cp\_buf[10];
fgets(buf, 10, stdin);
strcpy(cp\_buf, buf);3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-703: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/703.html 2/3The following method throws three types of exceptions.
While it might seem tidier to write
doing so hampers the caller's ability to understand and handle the exceptions that occur . Further , if a later revision of doExchange()
introduces a new type of exception that should be treated dif ferently than previous exceptions, there is no easy way to enforce this
requirement.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
Chain: JavaScript-based cryptocurrency library can fall back to the insecure Math.random() function
instead of reporting a failure ( CWE-392 ), thus reducing the entropy ( CWE-332 ) and leading to
generation of non-unique cryptographic keys for Bitcoin wallets ( CWE-1391 )
CVE-2022-22224 Chain: an operating system does not properly process malformed Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
Type/Length/V alue Identifiers (TL V) (CWE-703 ), which can cause the process to enter an infinite loop
(CWE-835 )
 Detection Methods
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Fault Injection - source code
Fault Injection - binary
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Forced Path Execution
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness: High(good code) Example Language: Java 
public void doExchange() throws IOException, InvocationTargetException, SQLException {
...
}
(bad code) 
public void doExchange() throws Exception {
...
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-703: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/703.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 880 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 12 - Exceptions and Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 961 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Exception Behavior
MemberOf 1141 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 07. Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is extremely high-level, a Pillar .
Comments:
Consider children or descendants of this entry instead.
 Notes
Relationship
This is a high-level class that might have some overlap with other classes. It could be argued that even "normal" weaknesses such
as buf fer overflows involve unusual or exceptional conditions. In that sense, this might be an inherent aspect of most other
weaknesses within CWE, similar to API Abuse ( CWE-227 ) and Indicator of Poor Code Quality ( CWE-398 ). However , this entry is
currently intended to unify disparate concepts that do not have other places within the Research Concepts view ( CWE-1000 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR06-J Do not throw undeclared checked exceptions
 References
[REF-567] Taimur Aslam. "A Taxonomy of Security Faults in the UNIX Operating System". 1995-08-01.
.
[REF-568] Taimur Aslam, Ivan Krsul and Eugene H. Spaf ford. "Use of A Taxonomy of Security Faults". 1995-08-01.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 8: C++ Catastrophes."
Page 143. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1374] Unciphered. "Randstorm: You Can't Patch a House of Cards". 2023-11-14.
. URL validated: 2023-11-15 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-09-09
(CWE 1.0, 2008-09-09)CWE Content Team MITRE
Note: this date reflects when the entry was first published. Draft versions of this entry were provided to
members of the CWE community and modified between Draft 9 and 1.0.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
