3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-827: Improper Control of Document Type Deﬁnition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/827.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-827: Improper Control of Document T ype Definition
Weakness ID: 827
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not restrict a reference to a Document Type Definition (DTD) to the intended control sphere. This might allow
attackers to reference arbitrary DTDs, possibly causing the product to expose files, consume excessive system resources, or execute
arbitrary http requests on behalf of the attacker .
 Extended Description
As DTDs are processed, they might try to read or include files on the machine performing the parsing. If an attacker is able to control
the DTD, then the attacker might be able to specify sensitive resources or requests or provide malicious content.
For example, the SOAP specification prohibits SOAP messages from containing DTDs.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 829 Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
CanPrecede 776 Improper Restriction of Recursive Entity References in DTDs ('XML Entity Expansion')
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
XML (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
If the attacker is able to include a crafted DTD and a default entity resolver is enabled, the attacker
may be able to access arbitrary files on the system.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory)
The DTD may cause the parser to consume excessive CPU cycles or memory using techniques
such as nested or recursive entity references ( CWE-776 ).
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
The DTD may include arbitrary HTTP requests that the server may execute. This could lead to other
attacks leveraging the server's trust relationship with other entities.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-2076 Product does not properly reject DTDs in SOAP messages, which allows remote attackers to read
arbitrary files, send HTTP requests to intranet servers, or cause a denial of service.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-827: Improper Control of Document Type Deﬁnition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/827.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-773] Daniel Kulp. "Apache CXF Security Advisory (CVE-2010-2076)". 2010-06-16.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-10-25
(CWE 1.11, 2010-12-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications