3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-191: Integer Underﬂow (Wrap or Wraparound) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/191.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-191: Integer Underflow (W rap or W raparound)
Weakness ID: 191
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product subtracts one value from another , such that the result is less than the minimum allowable integer value, which produces
a value that is not equal to the correct result.
 Extended Description
This can happen in signed and unsigned cases.
 Alternate T erms
Integer underflow:"Integer underflow" is sometimes used to identify signedness errors in which an originally positive number
becomes negative as a result of subtraction. However , there are cases of bad subtraction in which
unsigned integers are involved, so it's not always a signedness issue.
"Integer underflow" is occasionally used to describe array index errors in which the index is negative.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory); DoS: Instability
This weakness will generally lead to undefined behavior and therefore crashes. In the case of
overflows involving loop index variables, the likelihood of infinite loops is also high.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If the value in question is important to data (as opposed to flow), simple data corruption has
occurred. Also, if the wrap around results in other conditions such as buf fer overflows, further
memory corruption may occur .
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
This weakness can sometimes trigger buf fer overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code.
This is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-191: Integer Underﬂow (Wrap or Wraparound) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/191.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example subtracts from a 32 bit signed integer .
The example has an integer underflow . The value of i is already at the lowest negative value possible, so after subtracting 1, the new
value of i is 2147483647.
Example 2
This code performs a stack allocation based on a length calculation.
Since a and b are declared as signed ints, the "a - b" subtraction gives a negative result (-1). However , since len is declared to be
unsigned, len is cast to an extremely large positive number (on 32-bit systems - 4294967295). As a result, the buf fer buf[len]
declaration uses an extremely large size to allocate on the stack, very likely more than the entire computer's memory space.
Miscalculations usually will not be so obvious. The calculation will either be complicated or the result of an attacker's input to attain the
negative value.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0816 Integer underflow in firewall via malformed packet.
CVE-2004-1002 Integer underflow by packet with invalid length.
CVE-2005-0199 Long input causes incorrect length calculation.
CVE-2005-1891 Malformed icon causes integer underflow in loop counter variable.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1137 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 03. Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
main (void)
{
int i;
i = -2147483648;
i = i - 1;
return 0;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int a = 5, b = 6;
size\_t len = a - b;
char buf[len]; // Just blows up the stack
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-191: Integer Underﬂow (Wrap or Wraparound) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/191.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Integer underflow (wrap or wraparound)
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
CER T C Secure Coding INT30-C Imprecise Ensure that unsigned integer operations do not wrap
CER T C Secure Coding INT32-C Imprecise Ensure that operations on signed integers do not result in overflow
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 7: Integer Overflows."
Page 119. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications