3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-784: Reliance on Cookies without Validation and Integrity Checking in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/784.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-784: Reliance on Cookies without V alidation and Integrity Checking in a
Security Decision
Weakness ID: 784
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a protection mechanism that relies on the existence or values of a cookie, but it does not properly ensure that the
cookie is valid for the associated user .
 Extended Description
Attackers can easily modify cookies, within the browser or by implementing the client-side code outside of the browser . Attackers can
bypass protection mechanisms such as authorization and authentication by modifying the cookie to contain an expected value.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 807 Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision
ChildOf 565 Reliance on Cookies without V alidation and Integrity Checking
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
It is dangerous to use cookies to set a user's privileges. The cookie can be manipulated to claim a
high level of authorization, or to claim that successful authentication has occurred.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code excerpt reads a value from a browser cookie to determine the role of the user .
Example 2
The following code could be for a medical records application. It performs authentication by checking if a cookie has been set.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Cookie[] cookies = request.getCookies();
for (int i =0; i< cookies.length; i++) {
Cookie c = cookies[i];
if (c.getName().equals("role")) {
userRole = c.getValue();
}
}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-784: Reliance on Cookies without Validation and Integrity Checking in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/784.html 2/3The programmer expects that the AuthenticateUser() check will always be applied, and the "authenticated" cookie will only be set
when authentication succeeds. The programmer even diligently specifies a 2-hour expiration for the cookie.
However , the attacker can set the "authenticated" cookie to a non-zero value such as 1. As a result, the $auth variable is 1, and the
AuthenticateUser() check is not even performed. The attacker has bypassed the authentication.
Example 3
In the following example, an authentication flag is read from a browser cookie, thus allowing for external control of user state data.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-1549 Attacker can bypass authentication by setting a cookie to a specific value.
CVE-2009-1619 Attacker can bypass authentication and gain admin privileges by setting an "admin" cookie to 1.
CVE-2009-0864 Content management system allows admin privileges by setting a "login" cookie to "OK."
CVE-2008-5784 e-dating application allows admin privileges by setting the admin cookie to 1.
CVE-2008-6291 Web-based email list manager allows attackers to gain admin privileges by setting a login cookie to
"admin."
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Avoid using cookie data for a security-related decision.
Phase: Implementation
Perform thorough input validation (i.e.: server side validation) on the cookie data if you're going to use it for a security related
decision.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Add integrity checks to detect tampering.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Protect critical cookies from replay attacks, since cross-site scripting or other attacks may allow attackers to steal a strongly-
encrypted cookie that also passes integrity checks. This mitigation applies to cookies that should only be valid during a single
transaction or session. By enforcing timeouts, you may limit the scope of an attack. As part of your integrity check, use an
unpredictable, server-side value that is not exposed to the client.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$auth = $\_COOKIES['authenticated'];
if (! $auth) {
if (AuthenticateUser($\_POST['user'], $\_POST['password']) == "success") {
// save the cookie to send out in future responses
setcookie("authenticated", "1", time()+60\*60\*2);
}
else {
ShowLoginScreen();
die("\n");
}
}
DisplayMedicalHistory($\_POST['patient\_ID']);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Cookie[] cookies = request.getCookies();
for (int i =0; i< cookies.length; i++) {
Cookie c = cookies[i];
if (c.getName().equals("authenticated") && Boolean.TRUE.equals(c.getValue())) {
authenticated = true;
}
}3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-784: Reliance on Cookies without Validation and Integrity Checking in a Security Decision (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/784.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
A new parent might need to be defined for this entry . This entry is specific to cookies, which reflects the significant number of
vulnerabilities being reported for cookie-based authentication in CVE during 2008 and 2009. However , other types of inputs - such
as parameters or headers - could also be used for similar authentication or authorization. Similar issues (under the Research view)
include CWE-247 and CWE-472 .
 References
[REF-706] Steve Christey . "Unforgivable V ulnerabilities". 2007-08-02. < http://cve.mitre.org/docs/docs-2007/unforgivable.pdf >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 13, "Sensitive Data in Cookies and Fields" Page
435. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-16
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications