3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-115: Misinterpretation of Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/115.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-115: Misinterpretation of Input
Weakness ID: 115
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product misinterprets an input, whether from an attacker or another product, in a security-relevant fashion.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-2225 Product sees dangerous file extension in free text of a group discussion, disconnects all users.
CVE-2001-0003 Product does not correctly import and process security settings from another product.
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-UseAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-115: Misinterpretation of Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/115.html 2/2Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This concept needs further study . It is likely a factor in several weaknesses, possibly resultant as well. Overlaps Multiple
Interpretation Errors (MIE).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Misinterpretation Error
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names