3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-421: Race Condition During Access to Alternate Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/421.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-421: Race Condition During Access to Alternate Channel
Weakness ID: 421
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product opens an alternate channel to communicate with an authorized user , but the channel is accessible to other actors.
 Extended Description
This creates a race condition that allows an attacker to access the channel before the authorized user does.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
ChildOf 420 Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-0351 FTP "Pizza Thief" vulnerability . Attacker can connect to a port that was intended for use by another
client.
CVE-2003-0230 Product creates Windows named pipe during authentication that another attacker can hijack by
connecting to it.
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 956 SFP Secondary Cluster: Channel Attack
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-421: Race Condition During Access to Alternate Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/421.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Alternate Channel Race Condition
 References
[REF-354] Blake W atts. "Discovering and Exploiting Named Pipe Security Flaws for Fun and Profit". 2002-04.
. URL validated: 2023-
04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names