3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/478.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression
Weakness ID: 478
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code does not have a default case in an expression with multiple conditions, such as a switch statement.
 Extended Description
If a multiple-condition expression (such as a switch in C) omits the default case but does not consider or handle all possible values
that could occur , then this might lead to complex logical errors and resultant weaknesses. Because of this, further decisions are made
based on poor information, and cascading failure results. This cascading failure may result in any number of security issues, and
constitutes a significant failure in the system.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1023 Incomplete Comparison with Missing Factors
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
JavaScript (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Alter Execution Logic
Depending on the logical circumstances involved, any consequences may result: e.g., issues of
confidentiality , authentication, authorization, availability , integrity , accountability , or non-repudiation.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following does not properly check the return code in the case where the security\_check function returns a -1 value when an error
occurs. If an attacker can supply data that will invoke an error , the attacker can bypass the security check:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define FAILED 0
#define PASSED 1
int result;
...
result = security\_check(data);
switch (result) {
case FAILED:
itf("S ithkfild!\")3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/478.html 2/5Instead a default label should be used for unaccounted conditions:
This label is used because the assumption cannot be made that all possible cases are accounted for . A good practice is to reserve the
default case for error handling.
Example 2
In the following Java example the method getInterestRate retrieves the interest rate for the number of points for a mortgage. The
number of points is provided within the input parameter and a switch statement will set the interest rate value to be returned based on
the number of points.
However , this code assumes that the value of the points input parameter will always be 0, 1 or 2 and does not check for other
incorrect values passed to the method. This can be easily accomplished by providing a default label in the switch statement that
outputs an error message indicating an invalid value for the points input parameter and returning a null value.printf("Security check failed!\n");
exit(-1);
//Break never reached because of exit()
break;
case PASSED:
printf("Security check passed.\n");
break;
}
// program execution continues...
...
(good code) Example Language: C 
#define FAILED 0
#define PASSED 1
int result;
...
result = security\_check(data);
switch (result) {
case FAILED:
printf("Security check failed!\n");
exit(-1);
//Break never reached because of exit()
break;
case PASSED:
printf("Security check passed.\n");
break;
default:
printf("Unknown error (%d), exiting...\n",result);
exit(-1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS = "5.00";
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ONE\_POINTS = "4.75";
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_TWO\_POINTS = "4.50";
...
public BigDecimal getInterestRate(int points) {
BigDecimal result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS);
switch (points) {
case 0:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS);
break;
case 1:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ONE\_POINTS);
break;
case 2:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_TWO\_POINTS);
break;
}
return result;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS = "5.00";
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ONE\_POINTS = "4.75";
public static final String INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_TWO\_POINTS = "4.50";3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/478.html 3/5Example 3
In the following Python example the match-case statements (available in Python version 3.10 and later) perform actions based on the
result of the process\_data() function. The expected return is either 0 or 1. However , if an unexpected result (e.g., -1 or 2) is obtained
then no actions will be taken potentially leading to an unexpected program state.
The recommended approach is to add a default case that captures any unexpected result conditions, regardless of how improbable
these unexpected conditions might be, and properly handles them.
Example 4
In the following JavaScript example the switch-case statements (available in JavaScript version 1.2 and later) are used to process a
given step based on the result of a calcuation involving two inputs. The expected return is either 1, 2, or 3. However , if an unexpected
result (e.g., 4) is obtained then no action will be taken potentially leading to an unexpected program state....
public BigDecimal getInterestRate(int points) {
BigDecimal result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS);
switch (points) {
case 0:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ZERO\_POINTS);
break;
case 1:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_ONE\_POINTS);
break;
case 2:
result = new BigDecimal(INTEREST\_RATE\_AT\_TWO\_POINTS);
break;
default:
System.err.println("Invalid value for points, must be 0, 1 or 2");
System.err.println("Returning null value for interest rate");
result = null;
}
return result;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
result = process\_data(data)
match result:
case 0:
print("Properly handle zero case.")
case 1:
print("Properly handle one case.")
# program execution continues...
(good code) Example Language: Python 
result = process\_data(data)
match result:
case 0:
print("Properly handle zero case.")
case 1:
print("Properly handle one case.")
case \_:
print("Properly handle unexpected condition.")
# program execution continues...
(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
let step = input1 + input2;
switch(step) {
case 1:
alert("Process step 1.");
break;
case 2:
alert("Process step 2.");
break;
case 3:
lt("P t3")3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/478.html 4/5The recommended approach is to add a default case that captures any unexpected result conditions and properly handles them.
Example 5
The Finite State Machine (FSM) shown in the "bad" code snippet below assigns the output ("out") based on the value of state, which
is determined based on the user provided input ("user\_input").
The case statement does not include a default to handle the scenario when the user provides inputs of 3'h6 and 3'h7. Those inputs
push the system to an undefined state and might cause a crash (denial of service) or any other unanticipated outcome.
Adding a default statement to handle undefined inputs mitigates this issue. This is shown in the "Good" code snippet below . The
default statement is in bold.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementationalert("Process step 3.");
break;
}
// program execution continues...
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
let step = input1 + input2;
switch(step) {
case 1:
alert("Process step 1.");
break;
case 2:
alert("Process step 2.");
break;
case 3:
alert("Process step 3.");
break;
default:
alert("Unexpected step encountered.");
}
// program execution continues...
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module fsm\_1(out, user\_input, clk, rst\_n);
input [2:0] user\_input;
input clk, rst\_n;
output reg [2:0] out;
reg [1:0] state;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n )
begin
if (!rst\_n)
state = 3'h0;
else
case (user\_input)
3'h0:
3'h1:
3'h2:
3'h3: state = 2'h3;
3'h4: state = 2'h2;
3'h5: state = 2'h1;
endcase
end
out <= {1'h1, state};
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
case (user\_input)
3'h0:
3'h1:
3'h2:
3'h3: state = 2'h3;
3'h4: state = 2'h2;
3'h5: state = 2'h1;
default: state = 2'h0;
endcase3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-478: Missing Default Case in Multiple Condition Expression (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/478.html 5/5Ensure that there are no cases unaccounted for when adjusting program flow or values based on the value of a given variable.
In the case of switch style statements, the very simple act of creating a default case can, if done correctly , mitigate this situation.
Often however , the default case is used simply to represent an assumed option, as opposed to working as a check for invalid
input. This is poor practice and in some cases is as bad as omitting a default case entirely .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to account for default case in switch
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Switch
Statements", Page 337. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-08-15 Drew Buttner
Suggested name change and other modifications, including a new demonstrative example.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
