3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-636: Not Failing Securely ('Failing Open') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/636.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-636: Not Failing Securely ('Failing Open')
Weakness ID: 636
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
When the product encounters an error condition or failure, its design requires it to fall back to a state that is less secure than other
options that are available, such as selecting the weakest encryption algorithm or using the most permissive access control
restrictions.
 Extended Description
By entering a less secure state, the product inherits the weaknesses associated with that state, making it easier to compromise. At the
least, it causes administrators to have a false sense of security . This weakness typically occurs as a result of wanting to "fail
functional" to minimize administration and support costs, instead of "failing safe."
 Alternate T erms
Failing Open
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
ParentOf 455 Non-exit on Failed Initialization
PeerOf 280 Improper Handling of Insuf ficient Permissions or Privileges
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
Intended access restrictions can be bypassed, which is often contradictory to what the product's
administrator expects.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Switches may revert their functionality to that of hubs when the table used to map ARP information to the switch interface overflows,
such as when under a spoofing attack. This results in traf fic being broadcast to an eavesdropper , instead of being sent only on the
relevant switch interface. To mitigate this type of problem, the developer could limit the number of ARP entries that can be recorded
for a given switch interface, while other interfaces may keep functioning normally . Configuration options can be provided on the
appropriate actions to be taken in case of a detected failure, but safe defaults should be used.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-5277 The failure of connection attempts in a web browser resets DNS pin restrictions. An attacker can then
bypass the same origin policy by rebinding a domain name to a dif ferent IP address. This was anAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-636: Not Failing Securely ('Failing Open') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/636.html 2/2attempt to "fail functional."
CVE-2006-4407 Incorrect prioritization leads to the selection of a weaker cipher . Although it is not known whether this
issue occurred in implementation or design, it is feasible that a poorly designed algorithm could be a
factor .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Subdivide and allocate resources and components so that a failure in one part does not af fect the entire product.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 961 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Exception Behavior
MemberOf 1369 ICS Supply Chain: IT/OT Convergence/Expansion
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Research Gap
Since design issues are hard to fix, they are rarely publicly reported, so there are few CVE examples of this problem as of January
2008. Most publicly reported issues occur as the result of an implementation error instead of design, such as CVE-2005-3177
(Improper handling of large numbers of resources) or CVE-2005-2969 (inadvertently disabling a verification step, leading to selection
of a weaker protocol).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A7 CWE More Specific Improper Error Handling
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-522] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Failing Securely". 2005-12-05.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
