3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-124: Buﬀer Underwrite ('Buﬀer Underﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/124.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-124: Buffer Underwrite ('Buffer Underflow')
Weakness ID: 124
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product writes to a buf fer using an index or pointer that references a memory location prior to the beginning of the buf fer.
 Extended Description
This typically occurs when a pointer or its index is decremented to a position before the buf fer, when pointer arithmetic results in a
position before the beginning of the valid memory location, or when a negative index is used.
 Alternate T erms
buffer underrun: Some prominent vendors and researchers use the term "buf fer underrun". "Buf fer underflow" is more
commonly used, although both terms are also sometimes used to describe a buf fer under-read ( CWE-127 ).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
ChildOf 786 Access of Memory Location Before Start of Buf fer
CanFollow 839 Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Out of bounds memory access will very likely result in the corruption of relevant memory , and
perhaps instructions, possibly leading to a crash.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Memory; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
If the corrupted memory can be ef fectively controlled, it may be possible to execute arbitrary code. If
the corrupted memory is data rather than instructions, the system will continue to function with
improper changes, possibly in violation of an implicit or explicit policy . The consequences would
only be limited by how the af fected data is used, such as an adjacent memory location that is used
to specify whether the user has special privileges.
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other
security service.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-124: Buﬀer Underwrite ('Buﬀer Underﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/124.html 2/3Example 1
In the following C/C++ example, a utility function is used to trim trailing whitespace from a character string. The function copies the
input string to a local character string and uses a while statement to remove the trailing whitespace by moving backward through the
string and overwriting whitespace with a NUL character .
However , this function can cause a buf fer underwrite if the input character string contains all whitespace. On some systems the while
statement will move backwards past the beginning of a character string and will call the isspace() function on an address outside of
the bounds of the local buf fer.
Example 2
The following is an example of code that may result in a buf fer underwrite. This code is attempting to replace the substring "Replace
Me" in destBuf with the string stored in srcBuf. It does so by using the function strstr(), which returns a pointer to the found substring
in destBuf. Using pointer arithmetic, the starting index of the substring is found.
In the case where the substring is not found in destBuf, strstr() will return NULL, causing the pointer arithmetic to be undefined,
potentially setting the value of idx to a negative number . If idx is negative, this will result in a buf fer underwrite of destBuf.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-24018 buffer underwrite in firmware verification routine allows code execution via a crafted firmware image
CVE-2002-2227 Unchecked length of SSLv2 challenge value leads to buf fer underflow .
CVE-2007-4580 Buffer underflow from a small size value with a large buf fer (length parameter inconsistency , CWE-130 )
CVE-2007-1584 Buffer underflow from an all-whitespace string, which causes a counter to be decremented before the
buffer while looking for a non-whitespace character .
CVE-2007-0886 Buffer underflow resultant from encoded data that triggers an integer overflow .
CVE-2006-6171 Product sets an incorrect buf fer size limit, leading to "of f-by-two" buf fer underflow .
CVE-2006-4024 Negative value is used in a memcpy() operation, leading to buf fer underflow .
CVE-2004-2620 Buffer underflow due to mishandled special characters
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Choose a language that is not susceptible to these issues.
Phase: Implementation
All calculated values that are used as index or for pointer arithmetic should be validated to ensure that they are within an
expected range.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* trimTrailingWhitespace(char \*strMessage, int length) {
char \*retMessage;
char \*message = malloc(sizeof(char)\*(length+1));
// copy input string to a temporary string
char message[length+1];
int index;
for (index = 0; index < length; index++) {
message[index] = strMessage[index];
}
message[index] = '\0';
// trim trailing whitespace
int len = index-1;
while (isspace(message[len])) {
message[len] = '\0';
len--;
}
// return string without trailing whitespace
retMessage = message;
return retMessage;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int main() {
...
char \*result = strstr(destBuf, "Replace Me");
int idx = result - destBuf;
strcpy(&destBuf[idx], srcBuf);
...
}3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-124: Buﬀer Underwrite ('Buﬀer Underﬂow') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/124.html 3/3Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This could be resultant from several errors, including a bad of fset or an array index that decrements before the beginning of the
buffer (see CWE-129 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER UNDER - Boundary beginning violation ('buf fer underflow'?)
CLASP Buffer underwrite
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 References
[REF-90] "Buf fer UNDERFLOWS: What do you know about it?". V uln-Dev Mailing List. 2004-01-10. < https://seclists.org/vuln-
dev/2004/Jan/22 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-02-06 Muchen Xu Naive Systems
Pointed out that the demonstrative example #2 was incorrect and instead demonstrated a Buffer Under-read.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
