3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-638: Not Using Complete Mediation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/638.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-638: Not Using Complete Mediation
Weakness ID: 638
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not perform access checks on a resource every time the resource is accessed by an entity , which can create
resultant weaknesses if that entity's rights or privileges change over time.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 862 Missing Authorization
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
ParentOf 424 Improper Protection of Alternate Path
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection
Mechanism; Read Application Data; Other
A user might retain access to a critical resource even after privileges have been revoked, possibly
allowing access to privileged functionality or sensitive information, depending on the role of the
resource.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
When executable library files are used on web servers, which is common in PHP applications, the developer might perform an access
check in any user-facing executable, and omit the access check from the library file itself. By directly requesting the library file ( CWE-
425), an attacker can bypass this access check.
Example 2
When a developer begins to implement input validation for a web application, often the validation is performed in each area of the
code that uses externally-controlled input. In complex applications with many inputs, the developer often misses a parameter here or
a cookie there. One frequently-applied solution is to centralize all input validation, store these validated inputs in a separate data
structure, and require that all access of those inputs must be through that data structure. An alternate approach would be to use an
external input validation framework such as Struts, which performs the validation before the inputs are ever processed by the code.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0408 Server does not properly validate client certificates when reusing cached connections.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Invalidate cached privileges, file handles or descriptors, or other access credentials whenever identities, processes, policies,
roles, capabilities or permissions change. Perform complete authentication checks before accepting, caching and reusing data,
dynamic content and code (scripts). Avoid caching access control decisions as much as possible.
Phase: Architecture and DesignAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-638: Not Using Complete Mediation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/638.html 2/2Identify all possible code paths that might access sensitive resources. If possible, create and use a single interface that performs
the access checks, and develop code standards that require use of this interface.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 988 SFP Secondary Cluster: Race Condition Window
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP20 Race Condition Window
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-104 Cross Zone Scripting
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-526] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Complete Mediation". 2005-09-12.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
