3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-941: Incorrectly Speciﬁed Destination in a Communication Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/941.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-941: Incorrectly Specified Destination in a Communication Channel
Weakness ID: 941
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product creates a communication channel to initiate an outgoing request to an actor , but it does not correctly specify the intended
destination for that actor .
 Extended Description
Attackers at the destination may be able to spoof trusted servers to steal data or cause a denial of service.
There are at least two distinct weaknesses that can cause the product to communicate with an unintended destination:
If the product allows an attacker to control which destination is specified, then the attacker can cause it to connect to an
untrusted or malicious destination. For example, because UDP is a connectionless protocol, UDP packets can be spoofed by
specifying a false source address in the packet; when the server receives the packet and sends a reply , it will specify a
destination by using the source of the incoming packet - i.e., the false source. The server can then be tricked into sending
traffic to the wrong host, which is ef fective for hiding the real source of an attack and for conducting a distributed denial of
service (DDoS). As another example, server-side request forgery (SSRF) and XML External Entity (XXE) can be used to trick
a server into making outgoing requests to hosts that cannot be directly accessed by the attacker due to firewall restrictions.
If the product incorrectly specifies the destination, then an attacker who can control this destination might be able to spoof
trusted servers. While the most common occurrence is likely due to misconfiguration by an administrator , this can be resultant
from other weaknesses. For example, the product might incorrectly parse an e-mail or IP address and send sensitive data to
an unintended destination. As another example, an Android application may use a "sticky broadcast" to communicate with a
receiver for a particular application, but since sticky broadcasts can be processed by \*any\* receiver , this can allow a
malicious application to access restricted data that was only intended for a dif ferent application.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
CanPrecede 406 Insuf ficient Control of Network Message V olume (Network Amplification)
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code listens on a port for DNS requests and sends the result to the requesting address.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
sock = socket.socket(socket.AF\_INET, socket.SOCK\_DGRAM)
sock.bind( (UDP\_IP,UDP\_PORT) )
while true:
dt k f(1024)3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-941: Incorrectly Speciﬁed Destination in a Communication Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/941.html 2/2This code sends a DNS record to a requesting IP address. UDP allows the source IP address to be easily changed ('spoofed'), thus
allowing an attacker to redirect responses to a target, which may be then be overwhelmed by the network traf fic.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2013-5211 composite: NTP feature generates large responses (high amplification factor) with spoofed UDP source
addresses.
CVE-1999-0513 Classic "Smurf" attack, using spoofed ICMP packets to broadcast addresses.
CVE-1999-1379 DNS query with spoofed source address causes more traf fic to be returned to spoofed address than
was sent by the attacker .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-941] US-CER T. "UDP-based Amplification Attacks". 2014-01-17. < https://www .us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/T A14-017A >.
[REF-942] Fortify . "Android Bad Practices: Sticky Broadcast". < https://www .hpe.com/us/en/solutions/infrastructure-security .html?
jumpid=va\_wnmstr1ug6\_aid-510326901 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2014-02-13
(CWE 2.6, 2014-02-19)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
data = sock.recvfrom(1024)
if not data:
break
(requestIP, nameToResolve) = parseUDPpacket(data)
record = resolveName(nameToResolve)
sendResponse(requestIP,record)