3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1267: Policy Uses Obsolete Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1267.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1267: Policy Uses Obsolete Encoding
Weakness ID: 1267
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an obsolete encoding mechanism to implement access controls.
 Extended Description
Within a System-On-a-Chip (SoC), various circuits and hardware engines generate transactions for the purpose of accessing
(read/write) assets or performing various actions (e.g., reset, fetch, compute, etc.). Among various types of message information, a
typical transaction is comprised of source identity (identifying the originator of the transaction) and a destination identity (routing the
transaction to the respective entity). Sometimes the transactions are qualified with a Security Token. This Security Token helps the
destination agent decide on the set of allowed actions (e.g., access to an asset for reads and writes). A policy encoder is used to map
the bus transactions to Security Tokens that in turn are used as access-controls/protection mechanisms. A common weakness
involves using an encoding which is no longer trusted, i.e., an obsolete encoding.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Modify Files or Directories; Read Files or Directories; DoS: Resource
Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection
Mechanism; Reduce ReliabilityHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
For example, consider a system that has four bus masters. The table below provides bus masters, their Security Tokens, and trust
assumptions.
Bus Master Security T oken Decoding Trust Assumptions
Master\_0 "00" Untrusted
Master\_1 "01" TrustedAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1267: Policy Uses Obsolete Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1267.html 2/3Master\_2 "10" Untrusted
Master\_3 "11" Untrusted
The policy encoding is to be defined such that Security Token will be used in implemented access-controls. The bits in the bus
transaction that contain Security-T oken information are Bus\_transaction [15:11]. The assets are the AES-Key registers for encryption
or decryption. The key of 128 bits is implemented as a set of four , 32-bit registers.
Register Field description
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption, Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1 AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption, Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2 AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption, Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_4 AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption, Default 0x00000000
Below is an example of a policy encoding scheme inherited from a previous project where all "ODD" numbered Security Tokens are
trusted.
The inherited policy encoding is obsolete and does not work for the new system where an untrusted bus master with an odd Security
Token exists in the system, i.e., Master\_3 whose Security Token is "11". Based on the old policy , the untrusted bus master (Master\_3)
has access to the AES-Key registers. To resolve this, a register AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY can be defined to provide necessary ,
access controls:
New Policy:
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY[31:0] Default 0x00000002 - agent with Security Token "1" has access to AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0
through AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_4 registers
The AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY register defines which agents with a Security Token in the transaction can access the AES-key
registers. Each bit in this 32-bit register defines a Security Token. There could be a maximum of 32 security Tokens that are allowed
access to the AES-key registers. The number of the bit when set (i.e., "1") allows respective action from an agent whose identity
matches the number of the bit and, if "0" (i.e., Clear), disallows the respective action to that corresponding agent. Thus, any bus
master with Security Token "01" is allowed access to the AES-Key registers. Below is the Pseudo Code for policy encoding:
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Security Token Decoders should be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Access and programming flows should be tested in both pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
(bad code) 
If (Bus\_transaction[14] == "1")
Trusted = "1"
Else
Trusted = "0"
If (trusted)
Allow access to AES-Key registers
Else
Deny access to AES-Key registers
(good code) 
Security\_Token[4:0] = Bus\_transaction[15:11]
If (AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY[Security\_Token] == "1")
Allow access to AES-Key registers
Else
Deny access to AES-Key registers3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1267: Policy Uses Obsolete Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1267.html 3/3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
CAPEC-681 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Hardware Security Identifiers
 References
[REF-1093] Brandon Hill. "Huge Intel CPU Bug Allegedly Causes Kernel Memory V ulnerability With Up To 30% Performance Hit
In Windows And Linux". 2018-01-02. < https://hothardware.com/news/intel-cpu-bug-kernel-memory-isolation-linux-windows-
macos >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-18
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications