3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1276: Hardware Child Block Incorrectly Connected to Parent System (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1276.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1276: Hardware Child Block Incorrectly Connected to Parent System
Weakness ID: 1276
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Signals between a hardware IP and the parent system design are incorrectly connected causing security risks.
 Extended Description
Individual hardware IP must communicate with the parent system in order for the product to function correctly and as intended. If
implemented incorrectly , while not causing any apparent functional issues, may cause security issues. For example, if the IP should
only be reset by a system-wide hard reset, but instead the reset input is connected to a software-triggered debug mode reset (which
is also asserted during a hard reset), integrity of data inside the IP can be violated.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1197 Integration Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation This weakness is introduced when integrating IP into a parent design.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Many SoCs use hardware to partition system resources between trusted and un-trusted entities. One example of this concept is the
Arm TrustZone, in which the processor and all security-aware IP attempt to isolate resources based on the status of a privilege bit.
This privilege bit is part of the input interface in all TrustZone-aware IP . If this privilege bit is accidentally grounded or left unconnected
when the IP is instantiated, privilege escalation of all input data may occur .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
// IP definition
module tz\_peripheral(clk, reset, data\_in, data\_in\_security\_level, ...);
input clk, reset;
input [31:0] data\_in;
itdti itll3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1276: Hardware Child Block Incorrectly Connected to Parent System (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1276.html 2/3In the V erilog code below , the security level input to the TrustZone aware peripheral is correctly driven by an appropriate signal
instead of being grounded.
Example 2
Here is a code snippet from the Ariane core module in the HACK@DAC'21 Openpiton SoC [ REF-1362 ]. To ensure full functional
correctness, developers connect the ports with names. However , in some cases developers forget to connect some of these ports to
the desired signals in the parent module. These mistakes by developers can lead to incorrect functional behavior or , in some cases,
introduce security vulnerabilities.
In the above example from HACK@DAC'21, since interrupt signals are not properly connected, the CSR module will fail to send
notifications in the event of interrupts. Consequently , critical information in CSR registers that should be flushed or modified in
response to an interrupt won't be updated. These vulnerabilities can potentially result in information leakage across various privilege
levels.
To address the aforementioned vulnerability , developers must follow a two-step approach. First, they should ensure that all module
signals are properly connected. This can often be facilitated using automated tools, and many simulators and sanitizer tools issue
warnings when a signal remains unconnected or floats. Second, it is imperative to validate that the signals connected to a module
align with the specifications. In the provided example, the developer should establish the correct connection of interrupt signals from
the parent module (Ariane core) to the child module (csr\_regfile) [ REF-1363 ].input data\_in\_security\_level;
...
endmodule
// Instantiation of IP in a parent system
module soc(...)
...
tz\_peripheral u\_tz\_peripheral(
.clk(clk),
.rst(rst),
.data\_in(rdata),
//Copy-and-paste error or typo grounds data\_in\_security\_level (in this example 0=secure, 1=non-secure) effectively promoting all data
to "secure")
.data\_in\_security\_level(1'b0),
);
...
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
// Instantiation of IP in a parent system
module soc(...)
...
tz\_peripheral u\_tz\_peripheral(
.clk(clk),
.rst(rst),
.data\_in(rdata),
// This port is no longer grounded, but instead driven by the appropriate signal
.data\_in\_security\_level(rdata\_security\_level),
);
...
endmodule
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
csr\_regfile #(
...
) csr\_regfile\_i (
.flush\_o ( flush\_csr\_ctrl ),
.halt\_csr\_o ( halt\_csr\_ctrl ),
...
.irq\_i(),
.time\_irq\_i(),
.\*
);
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
csr\_regfile #(
...
) csr\_regfile\_i (
.flush\_o ( flush\_csr\_ctrl ),
.halt\_csr\_o ( halt\_csr\_ctrl ),
...
.irq\_i (irq\_i),
.time\_irq\_i (time\_irq\_i),
.\*
)3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1276: Hardware Child Block Incorrectly Connected to Parent System (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1276.html 3/3
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
System-level verification may be used to ensure that components are correctly connected and that design security requirements
are not violated due to interactions between various IP blocks.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1362] "ariane.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/ariane.sv#L539:L540
>. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
[REF-1363] "Fix CWE-1276". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/9a796ee83e21f59476d4b0a68ec3d8e8d5148214/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/ariane.sv#L539:L540
>. URL validated: 2023-09-01 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-22
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
);
...