3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-494: Download of Code Without Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/494.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-494: Download of Code W ithout Integrity Check
Weakness ID: 494
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product downloads source code or an executable from a remote location and executes the code without suf ficiently verifying the
origin and integrity of the code.
 Extended Description
An attacker can execute malicious code by compromising the host server , performing DNS spoofing, or modifying the code in transit.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
CanFollow 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Availability
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Alter Execution Logic; Other
Executing untrusted code could compromise the control flow of the program. The untrusted code
could execute attacker-controlled commands, read or modify sensitive resources, or prevent the
software from functioning correctly for legitimate users.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example loads an external class from a local subdirectory .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
URL[] classURLs= new URL[]{
new URL("file:subdir/")
};
URLClassLoader loader = new URLClassLoader(classURLs);
Class loadedClass = Class.forName("loadMe", true, loader);3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-494: Download of Code Without Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/494.html 2/4This code does not ensure that the class loaded is the intended one, for example by verifying the class's checksum. An attacker may
be able to modify the class file to execute malicious code.
Example 2
This code includes an external script to get database credentials, then authenticates a user against the database, allowing access to
the application.
This code does not verify that the external domain accessed is the intended one. An attacker may somehow cause the external
domain name to resolve to an attack server , which would provide the information for a false database. The attacker may then steal the
usernames and encrypted passwords from real user login attempts, or simply allow themself to access the application without a real
user account.
This example is also vulnerable to an Adversary-in-the-Middle AITM ( CWE-300 ) attack.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-9534 Satellite phone does not validate its firmware image.
CVE-2021-22909 Chain: router's firmware update procedure uses curl with "-k" (insecure) option that disables certificate
validation ( CWE-295 ), allowing adversary-in-the-middle (AITM) compromise with a malicious firmware
image ( CWE-494 ).
CVE-2008-3438 OS does not verify authenticity of its own updates.
CVE-2008-3324 online poker client does not verify authenticity of its own updates.
CVE-2001-1125 anti-virus product does not verify automatic updates for itself.
CVE-2002-0671 VOIP phone downloads applications from web sites without verifying integrity .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Perform proper forward and reverse DNS lookups to detect DNS spoofing.
Note: This is only a partial solution since it will not prevent your code from being modified on the hosting site or in transit.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Encrypt the code with a reliable encryption scheme before transmitting.
This will only be a partial solution, since it will not detect DNS spoofing and it will not prevent your code from being modified on
the hosting site.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Speficially , it may be helpful to use tools or frameworks to perform integrity checking on the transmitted code.
When providing the code that is to be downloaded, such as for automatic updates of the software, then use
cryptographic signatures for the code and modify the download clients to verify the signatures. Ensure that the
implementation does not contain CWE-295 , CWE-320 , CWE-347 , and related weaknesses.
Use code signing technologies such as Authenticode. See references [ REF-454 ] [REF-455 ] [REF-456 ].
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
//assume the password is already encrypted, avoiding CWE-312
function authenticate($username,$password){
include("http://external.example.com/dbInfo.php");
//dbInfo.php makes $dbhost, $dbuser, $dbpass, $dbname available
mysql\_connect($dbhost, $dbuser, $dbpass) or die ('Error connecting to mysql');
mysql\_select\_db($dbname);
$query = 'Select \* from users where username='.$username.' And password='.$password;
$result = mysql\_query($query);
if(mysql\_numrows($result) == 1){
mysql\_close();
return true;
}
else{
mysql\_close();
return false;
}
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-494: Download of Code Without Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/494.html 3/4Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is typically required to find the behavior that triggers the download of code, and to determine
whether integrity-checking methods are in use.
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process and also snif f the network connection. Trigger features related to product updates or plugin
installation, which is likely to force a code download. Monitor when files are downloaded and separately executed, or if they are
otherwise read back into the process. Look for evidence of cryptographic library calls that use integrity checking.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 859 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 16 - Platform Security
(SEC)
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-494: Download of Code Without Integrity Check (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/494.html 4/4This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
This is critical for mobile code, but it is likely to become more and more common as developers continue to adopt automated,
network-based product distributions and upgrades. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) might introduce additional subtleties. Common
exploitation scenarios may include ad server compromises and bad upgrades.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
CLASP Invoking untrusted mobile code
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SEC06-J Do not rely on the default automatic signature verification provided by
URLClassLoader and java.util.jar
Software Fault Patterns SFP27 Tainted input to environment
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-184 Software Integrity Attack
CAPEC-185 Malicious Software Download
CAPEC-186 Malicious Software Update
CAPEC-187 Malicious Automated Software Update via Redirection
CAPEC-533 Malicious Manual Software Update
CAPEC-538 Open-Source Library Manipulation
CAPEC-657 Malicious Automated Software Update via Spoofing
CAPEC-662 Adversary in the Browser (AiTB)
CAPEC-691 Spoof Open-Source Software Metadata
CAPEC-692 Spoof V ersion Control System Commit Metadata
CAPEC-693 StarJacking
CAPEC-695 Repo Jacking
 References
[REF-454] Microsoft. "Introduction to Code Signing". < http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms537361(VS.85).aspx >.
[REF-455] Microsoft. "Authenticode". < http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms537359(v=VS.85).aspx >.
[REF-456] Apple. "Code Signing Guide". Apple Developer Connection. 2008-11-19.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-457] Anthony Bellissimo, John Burgess and Kevin Fu. "Secure Software Updates: Disappointments and New Challenges".
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 18: The Sins of Mobile
Code." Page 267. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-459] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 20 - Download of Code Without Integrity Check". SANS Software Security
Institute. 2010-04-05. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-20-download-of-code-without-integrity-check/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names