3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-170: Improper Null Termination (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/170.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-170: Improper Null T ermination
Weakness ID: 170
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not terminate or incorrectly terminates a string or array with a null character or equivalent terminator .
 Extended Description
Null termination errors frequently occur in two dif ferent ways. An of f-by-one error could cause a null to be written out of bounds,
leading to an overflow . Or, a program could use a strncpy() function call incorrectly , which prevents a null terminator from being added
at all. Other scenarios are possible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
PeerOf 463 Deletion of Data Structure Sentinel
PeerOf 464 Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
CanAlsoBe 147 Improper Neutralization of Input Terminators
CanFollow 193 Off-by-one Error
CanFollow 682 Incorrect Calculation
CanPrecede 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
CanPrecede 126 Buffer Over-read
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The case of an omitted null character is the most dangerous of the possible issues. This will almost
certainly result in information disclosure, and possibly a buf fer overflow condition, which may be
exploited to execute arbitrary code.
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Read Memory; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Memory)
If a null character is omitted from a string, then most string-copying functions will read data until
they locate a null character , even outside of the intended boundaries of the string. This could: cause
a crash due to a segmentation fault cause sensitive adjacent memory to be copied and sent to an
outsider trigger a buf fer overflow when the copy is being written to a fixed-size buf fer.
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Misplaced null characters may result in any number of security problems. The biggest issue is a
subset of buf fer overflow , and write-what-where conditions, where data corruption occurs from the
writing of a null character over valid data, or even instructions. A randomly placed null characterAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-170: Improper Null Termination (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/170.html 2/4may put the system into an undefined state, and therefore make it prone to crashing. A misplaced
null character may corrupt other data in memory .
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Should the null character corrupt the process flow , or af fect a flag controlling access, it may lead to
logical errors which allow for the execution of arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code reads from cfgfile and copies the input into inputbuf using strcpy(). The code mistakenly assumes that inputbuf will
always contain a NULL terminator .
The code above will behave correctly if the data read from cfgfile is null terminated on disk as expected. But if an attacker is able to
modify this input so that it does not contain the expected NULL character , the call to strcpy() will continue copying from memory until it
encounters an arbitrary NULL character . This will likely overflow the destination buf fer and, if the attacker can control the contents of
memory immediately following inputbuf, can leave the application susceptible to a buf fer overflow attack.
Example 2
In the following code, readlink() expands the name of a symbolic link stored in pathname and puts the absolute path into buf. The
length of the resulting value is then calculated using strlen().
The code above will not always behave correctly as readlink() does not append a NULL byte to buf. Readlink() will stop copying
characters once the maximum size of buf has been reached to avoid overflowing the buf fer, this will leave the value buf not NULL
terminated. In this situation, strlen() will continue traversing memory until it encounters an arbitrary NULL character further on down
the stack, resulting in a length value that is much larger than the size of string. Readlink() does return the number of bytes copied, but
when this return value is the same as stated buf size (in this case MAXP ATH), it is impossible to know whether the pathname is
precisely that many bytes long, or whether readlink() has truncated the name to avoid overrunning the buf fer. In testing, vulnerabilities
like this one might not be caught because the unused contents of buf and the memory immediately following it may be NULL, thereby
causing strlen() to appear as if it is behaving correctly .
Example 3
While the following example is not exploitable, it provides a good example of how nulls can be omitted or misplaced, even when "safe"
functions are used:
The above code gives the following output: "The last character in shortString is: n (6e)". So, the shortString array does not end in a
NULL character , even though the "safe" string function strncpy() was used. The reason is that strncpy() does not impliciitly add a
NULL character at the end of the string when the source is equal in length or longer than the provided size.
 Observed Examples(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define MAXLEN 1024
...
char \*pathbuf[MAXLEN];
...
read(cfgfile,inputbuf,MAXLEN); //does not null terminate
strcpy(pathbuf,inputbuf); //requires null terminated input
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char buf[MAXPATH];
...
readlink(pathname, buf, MAXPATH);
int length = strlen(buf);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
int main() {
char longString[] = "String signifying nothing";
char shortString[16];
strncpy(shortString, longString, 16);
printf("The last character in shortString is: %c (%1$x)\n", shortString[15]);
return (0);
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-170: Improper Null Termination (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/170.html 3/4Reference Description
CVE-2000-0312 Attacker does not null-terminate argv[] when invoking another program.
CVE-2003-0777 Interrupted step causes resultant lack of null termination.
CVE-2004-1072 Fault causes resultant lack of null termination, leading to buf fer expansion.
CVE-2001-1389 Multiple vulnerabilities related to improper null termination.
CVE-2003-0143 Product does not null terminate a message buf fer after snprintf-like call, leading to overflow .
CVE-2009-2523 Chain: product does not handle when an input string is not NULL terminated ( CWE-170 ), leading to
buffer over-read ( CWE-125 ) or heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Use a language that is not susceptible to these issues. However , be careful of null byte interaction errors ( CWE-626 ) with lower-
level constructs that may be written in a language that is susceptible.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all string functions used are understood fully as to how they append null characters. Also, be wary of of f-by-one
errors when appending nulls to the end of strings.
Phase: Implementation
If performance constraints permit, special code can be added that validates null-termination of string buf fers, this is a rather
naive and error-prone solution.
Phase: Implementation
Switch to bounded string manipulation functions. Inspect buf fer lengths involved in the buf fer overrun trace reported with the
defect.
Phase: Implementation
Add code that fills buf fers with nulls (however , the length of buf fers still needs to be inspected, to ensure that the non null-
terminated string is not written at the physical end of the buf fer).
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 875 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 07 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 973 SFP Secondary Cluster: Improper NULL Termination
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-170: Improper Null Termination (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/170.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Factors: this is usually resultant from other weaknesses such as of f-by-one errors, but it can be primary to boundary condition
violations such as buf fer overflows. In buf fer overflows, it can act as an expander for assumed-immutable data.
Relationship
Overlaps missing input terminator .
Applicable Platform
Conceptually , this does not just apply to the C language; any language or representation that involves a terminator could have this
type of problem.
Maintenance
As currently described, this entry is more like a category than a weakness.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Improper Null Termination
7 Pernicious Kingdoms String Termination Error
CLASP Miscalculated null termination
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More
SpecificDenial of Service
CER T C Secure Coding POS30-C CWE More
AbstractUse the readlink() function properly
CER T C Secure Coding STR03-C Do not inadvertently truncate a null-terminated byte string
CER T C Secure Coding STR32-C Exact Do not pass a non-null-terminated character sequence to a
library function that expects a string
Software Fault Patterns SFP11 Improper Null Termination
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications