3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-184: Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/184.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-184: Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
Weakness ID: 184
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements a protection mechanism that relies on a list of inputs (or properties of inputs) that are not allowed by policy or
otherwise require other action to neutralize before additional processing takes place, but the list is incomplete, leading to resultant
weaknesses.
 Extended Description
Developers often try to protect their products against malicious input by performing tests against inputs that are known to be bad,
such as special characters that can invoke new commands. However , such lists often only account for the most well-known bad
inputs. Attackers may be able to find other malicious inputs that were not expected by the developer , allowing them to bypass the
intended protection mechanism.
 Alternate T erms
Denylist / Deny List: This is used by CWE and CAPEC instead of other commonly-used terms. Its counterpart is allowlist.
Blocklist / Block List: This is often used by security tools such as firewalls, email or web gateways, proxies, etc.
Blacklist / Black List: This term is frequently used, but usage has been declining as organizations have started to adopt other
terms.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1023 Incomplete Comparison with Missing Factors
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 692 Incomplete Denylist to Cross-Site Scripting
PeerOf 86 Improper Neutralization of Invalid Characters in Identifiers in W eb Pages
PeerOf 625 Permissive Regular Expression
CanPrecede 78 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command
Injection')
CanPrecede 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
CanPrecede 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
CanPrecede 434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationDevelopers might begin to develop a list of bad inputs as a fast way to fix a particular weakness,
instead of fixing the root cause. See [ REF-141 ].
Architecture and Design The design might rely solely on detection of malicious inputs as a protection mechanism.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection MechanismAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-184: Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/184.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to stop XSS attacks by removing all occurences of "script" in an input string.
Because the code only checks for the lower-case "script" string, it can be easily defeated with upper-case script tags.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-2309 product uses a denylist to identify potentially dangerous content, allowing attacker to bypass a warning
CVE-2005-2782 PHP remote file inclusion in web application that filters "http" and "https" URLs, but not "ftp".
CVE-2004-0542 Programming language does not filter certain shell metacharacters in Windows environment.
CVE-2004-0595 XSS filter doesn't filter null characters before looking for dangerous tags, which are ignored by web
browsers. MIE and validate-before-cleanse.
CVE-2005-3287 Web-based mail product doesn't restrict dangerous extensions such as ASPX on a web server , even
though others are prohibited.
CVE-2004-2351 Resultant XSS when only 