3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-23: Relative Path T raversal
Weakness ID: 23
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory , but it does not properly neutralize
sequences such as ".." that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory .
 Extended Description
This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory .
 Alternate T erms
Zip Slip: "Zip slip" is an attack that uses file archives (e.g., ZIP , tar, rar, etc.) that contain filenames with path traversal
sequences that cause the files to be written outside of the directory under which the archive is expected to be
extracted [ REF-1282 ]. It is most commonly used for relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ) and link following ( CWE-59 ).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
ParentOf 24 Path Traversal: '../filedir'
ParentOf 25 Path Traversal: '/../filedir'
ParentOf 26 Path Traversal: '/dir/../filename'
ParentOf 27 Path Traversal: 'dir/../../filename'
ParentOf 28 Path Traversal: '..\filedir'
ParentOf 29 Path Traversal: '\..\filename'
ParentOf 30 Path Traversal: '\dir\..\filename'
ParentOf 31 Path Traversal: 'dir\..\..\filename'
ParentOf 32 Path Traversal: '...' (T riple Dot)
ParentOf 33 Path Traversal: '....' (Multiple Dot)
ParentOf 34 Path Traversal: '....//'
ParentOf 35 Path Traversal: '.../...//'
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The attacker may be able to create or overwrite critical files that are used to execute code, such as
programs or libraries.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
The attacker may be able to overwrite or create critical files, such as programs, libraries, or important
data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass
that mechanism. For example, appending a new account at the end of a password file may allow an
attacker to bypass authentication.
Confidentiality Technical Impact: Read Files or DirectoriesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 2/6The attacker may be able read the contents of unexpected files and expose sensitive data. If the
targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that
mechanism. For example, by reading a password file, the attacker could conduct brute force
password guessing attacks in order to break into an account on the system.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The attacker may be able to overwrite, delete, or corrupt unexpected critical files such as programs,
libraries, or important data. This may prevent the product from working at all and in the case of a
protection mechanisms such as authentication, it has the potential to lockout every user of the
product.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following URLs are vulnerable to this attack:
A simple way to execute this attack is like this:
Example 2
The following code could be for a social networking application in which each user's profile information is stored in a separate file. All
files are stored in a single directory .
While the programmer intends to access files such as "/users/cwe/profiles/alice" or "/users/cwe/profiles/bob", there is no verification of
the incoming user parameter . An attacker could provide a string such as:
The program would generate a profile pathname like this:
When the file is opened, the operating system resolves the "../" during path canonicalization and actually accesses this file:
As a result, the attacker could read the entire text of the password file.
Notice how this code also contains an error message information leak ( CWE-209 ) if the user parameter does not produce a file that
exists: the full pathname is provided. Because of the lack of output encoding of the file that is retrieved, there might also be a cross-
site scripting problem ( CWE-79 ) if profile contains any HTML, but other code would need to be examined.
Example 3
The following code demonstrates the unrestricted upload of a file with a Java servlet and a path traversal vulnerability . The action
attribute of an HTML form is sending the upload file request to the Java servlet.(bad code) 
http://example.com.br/get-files.jsp?file=report.pdf
http://example.com.br/get-page.php?home=aaa.html
http://example.com.br/some-page.asp?page=index.html
(attack code) 
http://example.com.br/get-files?file=../../../../somedir/somefile
http://example.com.br/../../../../etc/shadow
http://example.com.br/get-files?file=../../../../etc/passwd
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $dataPath = "/users/cwe/profiles";
my $username = param("user");
my $profilePath = $dataPath . "/" . $username;
open(my $fh, "<", $profilePath) || ExitError("profile read error: $profilePath");
print "\n";
while (<$fh>) {
print "* $\_
\n";
}
print "
\n";
(attack code) 
../../../etc/passwd
(result) 
/users/cwe/profiles/../../../etc/passwd
(result) 
/etc/passwd3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 3/6When submitted the Java servlet's doPost method will receive the request, extract the name of the file from the Http request header ,
read the file contents from the request and output the file to the local upload directory .
This code does not perform a check on the type of the file being uploaded ( CWE-434 ). This could allow an attacker to upload any
executable file or other file with malicious code.
Additionally , the creation of the Buf feredW riter object is subject to relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ). Since the code does not check the
filename that is provided in the header , an attacker can use "../" sequences to write to files outside of the intended directory .
Depending on the executing environment, the attacker may be able to specify arbitrary files to write to, leading to a wide variety of
consequences, from code execution, XSS ( CWE-79 ), or system crash.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-45918 Chain: a learning management tool debugger uses external input to locate previous session logs
(CWE-73 ) and does not properly validate the given path ( CWE-20 ), allowing for filesystem path
traversal using "../" sequences ( CWE-24 )
CVE-2019-20916 Python package manager does not correctly restrict the filename specified in a Content-Disposition
header , allowing arbitrary file read using path traversal sequences such as "../"
CVE-2022-24877 directory traversal in Go-based Kubernetes operator app allows accessing data from the controller's
pod file system via ../ sequences in a yaml file(good code) Example Language: HTML 

Choose a file to upload:

  



(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class FileUploadServlet extends HttpServlet {
...
protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
response.setContentType("text/html");
PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
String contentType = request.getContentType();
// the starting position of the boundary header
int ind = contentType.indexOf("boundary=");
String boundary = contentType.substring(ind+9);
String pLine = new String();
String uploadLocation = new String(UPLOAD\_DIRECTORY\_STRING); //Constant value
// verify that content type is multipart form data
if (contentType != null && contentType.indexOf("multipart/form-data") != -1) {
// extract the filename from the Http header
BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(request.getInputStream()));
...
pLine = br.readLine();
String filename = pLine.substring(pLine.lastIndexOf("\\"), pLine.lastIndexOf("\""));
...
// output the file to the local upload directory
try {
BufferedWriter bw = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter(uploadLocation+filename, true));
for (String line; (line=br.readLine())!=null; ) {
if (line.indexOf(boundary) == -1) {
bw.write(line);
bw.newLine();
bw.flush();
}
} //end of for loop
bw.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
// output successful upload response HTML page
}
// output unsuccessful upload response HTML page
else
{...}
}
...
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 4/6CVE-2020-4053 a Kubernetes package manager written in Go allows malicious plugins to inject path traversal
sequences into a plugin archive ("Zip slip") to copy a file outside the intended directory
CVE-2021-21972 Chain: Cloud computing virtualization platform does not require authentication for upload of a tar format
file (CWE-306 ), then uses .. path traversal sequences ( CWE-23 ) in the file to access unexpected files,
as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2019-10743 Go-based archive library allows extraction of files to locations outside of the target folder with "../" path
traversal sequences in filenames in a zip file, aka "Zip Slip"
CVE-2002-0298 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via certain HTTP GET requests containing
a %2e%2e (encoded dot-dot), several "/../" sequences, or several "../" in a URI.
CVE-2002-0661 "\" not in denylist for web server , allowing path traversal attacks when the server is run in Windows and
other OSes.
CVE-2002-0946 Arbitrary files may be read files via ..\ (dot dot) sequences in an HTTP request.
CVE-2002-1042 Directory traversal vulnerability in search engine for web server allows remote attackers to read
arbitrary files via "..\" sequences in queries.
CVE-2002-1209 Directory traversal vulnerability in FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via "..\"
sequences in a GET request.
CVE-2002-1178 Directory traversal vulnerability in servlet allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands via
"..\" sequences in an HTTP request.
CVE-2002-1987 Protection mechanism checks for "/.." but doesn't account for Windows-specific "\.." allowing read of
arbitrary files.
CVE-2005-2142 Directory traversal vulnerability in FTP server allows remote authenticated attackers to list arbitrary
directories via a "\.." sequence in an LS command.
CVE-2002-0160 The administration function in Access Control Server allows remote attackers to read HTML, Java
class, and image files outside the web root via a "..\.." sequence in the URL to port 2002.
CVE-2001-0467 "\..." in web server
CVE-2001-0963 "..." in cd command in FTP server
CVE-2001-1193 "..." in cd command in FTP server
CVE-2001-1131 "..." in cd command in FTP server
CVE-2001-0480 read of arbitrary files and directories using GET or CD with "..." in Windows-based FTP server .
CVE-2002-0288 read files using "." and Unicode-encoded "/" or "\" characters in the URL.
CVE-2003-0313 Directory listing of web server using "..."
CVE-2005-1658 Triple dot
CVE-2000-0240 read files via "/........../" in URL
CVE-2000-0773 read files via "...." in web server
CVE-1999-1082 read files via "......" in web server (doubled triple dot?)
CVE-2004-2121 read files via "......" in web server (doubled triple dot?)
CVE-2001-0491 multiple attacks using "..", "...", and "...." in dif ferent commands
CVE-2001-0615 "..." or "...." in chat server
CVE-2005-2169 chain: ".../...//" bypasses protection mechanism using regexp's that remove "../" resulting in collapse
into an unsafe value "../" ( CWE-182 ) and resultant path traversal.
CVE-2005-0202 ".../....///" bypasses regexp's that remove "./" and "../"
CVE-2004-1670 Mail server allows remote attackers to create arbitrary directories via a ".." or rename arbitrary files via
a "....//" in user supplied parameters.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 5/6Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
Use a built-in path canonicalization function (such as realpath() in C) that produces the canonical version of the pathname,
which ef fectively removes ".." sequences and symbolic links ( CWE-23 , CWE-59 ). This includes:
realpath() in C
getCanonicalPath() in Java
GetFullPath() in ASP.NET
realpath() or abs\_path() in Perl
realpath() in PHP
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Relative Path Traversal
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-139 Relative Path Traversal
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
 References
[REF-192] OW ASP. "OW ASP Attack listing". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/Relative\_Path\_T raversal >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Filenames and
Paths", Page 503. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1282] Snyk. "Zip Slip V ulnerability". 2018-06-05. < https://security .snyk.io/research/zip-slip-vulnerability >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-07-11 Nick Johnston
Identified weakness in Perl demonstrative example
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-23: Relative Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/23.html 6/6
 Submissions
 Modifications