3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-462: Duplicate Key in Associative List (Alist) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/462.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-462: Duplicate Key in Associative List (Alist)
Weakness ID: 462
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Duplicate keys in associative lists can lead to non-unique keys being mistaken for an error .
 Extended Description
A duplicate key entry -- if the alist is designed properly -- could be used as a constant time replace function. However , duplicate key
entries could be inserted by mistake. Because of this ambiguity , duplicate key entries in an association list are not recommended and
should not be allowed.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 694 Use of Multiple Resources with Duplicate Identifier
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation; Varies by Context
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code adds data to a list and then attempts to sort the data.
Since basename is not necessarily unique, this may not sort how one would like it to be.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a hash table instead of an alist.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an alist which checks the uniqueness of hash keys with each entry before inserting the entry .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
alist = []
while (foo()): #now assume there is a string data with a key basename
queue.append(basename,data)
queue.sort()3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-462: Duplicate Key in Associative List (Alist) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/462.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 744 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 11 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 878 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 10 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
CLASP Duplicate key in associative list (alist)
CER T C Secure Coding ENV02-C Beware of multiple environment variables with the same ef fective name
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
