3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-926: Improper Export of Android Application Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/926.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-926: Improper Export of Android Application Components
Weakness ID: 926
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The Android application exports a component for use by other applications, but does not properly restrict which applications can
launch the component or access the data it contains.
 Extended Description
The attacks and consequences of improperly exporting a component may depend on the exported component:
If access to an exported Activity is not restricted, any application will be able to launch the activity . This may allow a malicious
application to gain access to sensitive information, modify the internal state of the application, or trick a user into interacting
with the victim application while believing they are still interacting with the malicious application.
If access to an exported Service is not restricted, any application may start and bind to the Service. Depending on the
exposed functionality , this may allow a malicious application to perform unauthorized actions, gain access to sensitive
information, or corrupt the internal state of the application.
If access to a Content Provider is not restricted to only the expected applications, then malicious applications might be able to
access the sensitive data. Note that in Android before 4.2, the Content Provider is automatically exported unless it has been
explicitly declared as NOT exported.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
 Background Details
There are three types of components that can be exported in an Android application.
An Activity is an application component that provides a UI for users to interact with. A typical application will have multiple
Activity screens that perform dif ferent functions, such as a main Activity screen and a separate settings Activity screen.
A Service is an application component that is started by another component to execute an operation in the background, even
after the invoking component is terminated. Services do not have a UI component visible to the user .
The Content Provider mechanism can be used to share data with other applications or internally within the same application.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability; Varies by Context
Other applications, possibly untrusted, can launch the Activity .
Availability
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Instability;
Varies by Context
Other applications, possibly untrusted, can bind to the Service.
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application DataAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-926: Improper Export of Android Application Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/926.html 2/3Other applications, possibly untrusted, can read or modify the data that is of fered by the Content
Provider .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This application is exporting an activity and a service in its manifest.xml:
Because these components have intent filters but have not explicitly set 'android:exported=false' elsewhere in the manifest, they are
automatically exported so that any other application can launch them. This may lead to unintended behavior or exploits.
Example 2
This application has created a content provider to enable custom search suggestions within the application:
Because this content provider is only intended to be used within the application, it does not need to be exported. However , in Android
before 4.2, it is automatically exported thus potentially allowing malicious applications to access sensitive information.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Build and Compilation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
If they do not need to be shared by other applications, explicitly mark components with android:exported="false" in the
application manifest.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
If you only intend to use exported components between related apps under your control, use
android:protectionLevel="signature" in the xml manifest to restrict access to applications signed by you.
Phases: Build and Compilation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Limit Content Provider permissions (read/write) as appropriate.
Phases: Build and Compilation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Limit Content Provider permissions (read/write) as appropriate.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
(bad code) Example Language: XML 

...




...


...



...

(bad code) Example Language: XML 

android:name="com.example.vulnerableApp.searchDB"
android:authorities="com.example.vulnerableApp.searchDB">
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-926: Improper Export of Android Application Components (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/926.html 3/3MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-923] Android Open Source Project. "Security Tips". 2013-07-16. < https://developer .android.com/training/articles/security-
tips#ContentProviders >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-07-02
(CWE 2.5, 2013-07-17)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
