3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-107: Struts: Unused Validation Form (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/107.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-107: Struts: Unused V alidation Form
Weakness ID: 107
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An unused validation form indicates that validation logic is not up-to-date.
 Extended Description
It is easy for developers to forget to update validation logic when they remove or rename action form mappings. One indication that
validation logic is not being properly maintained is the presence of an unused validation form.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1164 Irrelevant Code
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example the class RegistrationForm is a Struts framework ActionForm Bean that will maintain user input data from a
registration webpage for an online business site. The user will enter registration data and, through the Struts framework, the
RegistrationForm bean will maintain the user data in the form fields using the private member variables. The RegistrationForm class
uses the Struts validation capability by extending the V alidatorForm class and including the validation for the form fields within the
validator XML file, validator .xml.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class RegistrationForm extends org.apache.struts.validator.ValidatorForm {
// private variables for registration form
private String name;
private String address;
private String city;
private String state;
private String zipcode;
// no longer using the phone form field
// private String phone;
private String email;
public RegistrationForm() {
super();
}
// getter and setter methods for private variables
...
}3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-107: Struts: Unused Validation Form (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/107.html 2/3However , the validator XML file, validator .xml, for the RegistrationForm class includes the validation form for the user input form field
"phone" that is no longer used by the input form and the RegistrationForm class. Any validation forms that are no longer required
should be removed from the validator XML file, validator .xml.
The existence of unused forms may be an indication to attackers that this code is out of date or poorly maintained.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Remove the unused V alidation Form from the validation.xml file.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
}
(bad code) Example Language: XML 















mask
[a-zA-Z]{2}





mask
\d{5}





mask
^([0-9]{3})(-)([0-9]{4}|[0-9]{4})$







3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-107: Struts: Unused Validation Form (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/107.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: Unused V alidation Form
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications