3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1327: Binding to an Unrestricted IP Address (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1327.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1327: Binding to an Unrestricted IP Address
Weakness ID: 1327
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product assigns the address 0.0.0.0 for a database server , a cloud service/instance, or any computing resource that
communicates remotely .
 Extended Description
When a server binds to the address 0.0.0.0, it allows connections from every IP address on the local machine, ef fectively exposing
the server to every possible network. This might be much broader access than intended by the developer or administrator , who might
only be expecting the server to be reachable from a single interface/network.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
System Configuration
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Other (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Client Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: AmplificationHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code snippet uses 0.0.0.0 in a Puppet script.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
signingserver::instance {
"nightly-key-signing-server":
listenaddr => "0.0.0.0",
port => "9100",
code\_tag => "SIGNING\_SERVER",
}3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1327: Binding to an Unrestricted IP Address (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1327.html 2/2The Puppet code snippet is used to provision a signing server that will use 0.0.0.0 to accept traf fic. However , as 0.0.0.0 is
unrestricted, malicious users may use this IP address to launch frequent requests and cause denial of service attacks.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21947 Desktop manager for Kubernetes and container management binds a service to 0.0.0.0, allowing users
on the network to make requests to a dashboard API.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Assign IP addresses that are not 0.0.0.0.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: System Configuration
Strategy: Firewall
Unwanted connections to the configured server may be denied through a firewall or other packet filtering measures.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
 References
[REF-1158] Akond Rahman, Md Rayhanur Rahman, Chris Parnin and Laurie Williams. "Security Smells in Ansible and Chef
Scripts: A Replication Study". 2020-06-20. < https://arxiv .org/pdf/1907.07159.pdf >.
[REF-1159] Akond Rahman, Chris Parnin and Laurie Williams. "The Seven Sins: Security Smells in Infrastructure as Code
Scripts". ICSE '19: Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Software Engineering. 2019-05.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-09-08
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Akond Rahman Tennessee Technological University
 Modifications
}
(good code) Example Language: Other 
signingserver::instance {
"nightly-key-signing-server":
listenaddr => "127.0.0.1",
port => "9100",
code\_tag => "SIGNING\_SERVER",
}