3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-257: Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/257.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-257: Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format
Weakness ID: 257
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The storage of passwords in a recoverable format makes them subject to password reuse attacks by malicious users. In fact, it should
be noted that recoverable encrypted passwords provide no significant benefit over plaintext passwords since they are subject not only
to reuse by malicious attackers but also by malicious insiders. If a system administrator can recover a password directly , or use a
brute force search on the available information, the administrator can use the password on other accounts.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 522 Insuf ficiently Protected Credentials
PeerOf 259 Use of Hard-coded Password
PeerOf 798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
User's passwords may be revealed.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
Revealed passwords may be reused elsewhere to impersonate the users in question.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Both of these examples verify a password by comparing it to a stored compressed version.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(compress(password), compressed\_password)) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0);
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-257: Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/257.html 2/3Because a compression algorithm is used instead of a one way hashing algorithm, an attacker can recover compressed passwords
stored in the database.
Example 2
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30018 A messaging platform serializes all elements of User/Group objects, making private information
available to adversaries
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use strong, non-reversible encryption to protect stored passwords.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (passwd.Equals(compress(password), compressed\_password)) {
return(0);
}
//Diagnostic Mode
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-257: Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/257.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The meaning of this entry needs to be investigated more closely , especially with respect to what is meant by "recoverable."
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Storing passwords in a recoverable format
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-49 Password Brute Forcing
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications