3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-128: Wrap-around Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/128.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-128: W rap-around Error
Weakness ID: 128
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Wrap around errors occur whenever a value is incremented past the maximum value for its type and therefore "wraps around" to a
very small, negative, or undefined value.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
PeerOf 190 Integer Overflow or W raparound
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Background Details
Due to how addition is performed by computers, if a primitive is incremented past the maximum value possible for its storage space,
the system will not recognize this, and therefore increment each bit as if it still had extra space. Because of how negative numbers are
represented in binary , primitives interpreted as signed may "wrap" to very large negative values.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Memory); DoS: Instability
This weakness will generally lead to undefined behavior and therefore crashes. In the case of
overflows involving loop index variables, the likelihood of infinite loops is also high.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
If the value in question is important to data (as opposed to flow), simple data corruption has
occurred. Also, if the wrap around results in other conditions such as buf fer overflows, further
memory corruption may occur .
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
This weakness can sometimes trigger buf fer overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code.
This is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following image processing code allocates a table for images.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-128: Wrap-around Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/128.html 2/3This code intends to allocate a table of size num\_imgs, however as num\_imgs grows large, the calculation determining the size of the
list will eventually overflow ( CWE-190 ). This will result in a very small list to be allocated instead. If the subsequent code operates on
the list as if it were num\_imgs long, it may result in many types of out-of-bounds problems ( CWE-119 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Requirements specification: The choice could be made to use a language that is not susceptible to these issues.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Provide clear upper and lower bounds on the scale of any protocols designed.
Phase: Implementation
Perform validation on all incremented variables to ensure that they remain within reasonable bounds.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
The relationship between overflow and wrap-around needs to be examined more closely , since several entries (including CWE-190 )
are closely related.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
CLASP Wrap-around error
CER T C Secure Coding MEM07-C Ensure that the arguments to calloc(), when multiplied, can be represented
as a size\_t
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-92 Forced Integer Overflow
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Signed Integer
Boundaries", Page 220. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
(bad code) Example Language: C 
img\_t table\_ptr; /\*struct containing img data, 10kB each\*/
int num\_imgs;
...
num\_imgs = get\_num\_imgs();
table\_ptr = (img\_t\*)malloc(sizeof(img\_t)\*num\_imgs);
...3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-128: Wrap-around Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/128.html 3/3[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications