3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-104: Struts: Form Bean Does Not Extend Validation Class (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/104.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-104: Struts: Form Bean Does Not Extend V alidation Class
Weakness ID: 104
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
If a form bean does not extend an ActionForm subclass of the V alidator framework, it can expose the application to other weaknesses
related to insuf ficient input validation.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Background Details
In order to use the Struts V alidator , a form must extend one of the following: V alidatorForm, V alidatorActionForm,
DynaV alidatorActionForm, and DynaV alidatorForm. One of these classes must be extended because the Struts V alidator ties in to the
application by implementing the validate() method in these classes. Forms derived from the ActionForm and DynaActionForm classes
cannot use the Struts V alidator .
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Bypassing the validation framework for a form exposes the application to numerous types of attacks.
Unchecked input is an important component of vulnerabilities like cross-site scripting, process
control, and SQL injection.
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Although J2EE applications are not generally susceptible to memory corruption attacks, if a J2EE
application interfaces with native code that does not perform array bounds checking, an attacker may
be able to use an input validation mistake in the J2EE application to launch a buf fer overflow attack.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following Java example the class RegistrationForm is a Struts framework ActionForm Bean that will maintain user information
from a registration webpage for an online business site. The user will enter registration data and through the Struts framework the
RegistrationForm bean will maintain the user data.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class RegistrationForm extends org.apache.struts.action.ActionForm {
// private variables for registration form
private String name;
private String email;
...
public RegistrationForm() {
super();
}
//tt dtt thdf it ibl3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-104: Struts: Form Bean Does Not Extend Validation Class (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/104.html 2/3However , the RegistrationForm class extends the Struts ActionForm class which does not allow the RegistrationForm class to use the
Struts validator capabilities. When using the Struts framework to maintain user data in an ActionForm Bean, the class should always
extend one of the validator classes, V alidatorForm, V alidatorActionForm, DynaV alidatorForm or DynaV alidatorActionForm. These
validator classes provide default validation and the validate method for custom validation for the Bean object to use for validating input
data. The following Java example shows the RegistrationForm class extending the V alidatorForm class and implementing the validate
method for validating input data.
Note that the V alidatorForm class itself extends the ActionForm class within the Struts framework API.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all forms extend one of the V alidation Classes.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: Form Bean Does Not Extend V alidation Class
// getter and setter methods for private variables
...
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public class RegistrationForm extends org.apache.struts.validator.ValidatorForm {
// private variables for registration form
private String name;
private String email;
...
public RegistrationForm() {
super();
}
public ActionErrors validate(ActionMapping mapping, HttpServletRequest request) {...}
// getter and setter methods for private variables
...
}3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-104: Struts: Form Bean Does Not Extend Validation Class (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/104.html 3/3Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications