3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-655: Insuﬃcient Psychological Acceptability (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/655.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-655: Insufficient Psychological Acceptability
Weakness ID: 655
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product has a protection mechanism that is too dif ficult or inconvenient to use, encouraging non-malicious users to disable or
bypass the mechanism, whether by accident or on purpose.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
By bypassing the security mechanism, a user might leave the system in a less secure state than
intended by the administrator , making it more susceptible to compromise.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In "Usability of Security: A Case Study" [ REF-540 ], the authors consider human factors in a cryptography product. Some of the
weakness relevant discoveries of this case study were: users accidentally leaked sensitive information, could not figure out how to
perform some tasks, thought they were enabling a security option when they were not, and made improper trust decisions.
Example 2
Enforcing complex and dif ficult-to-remember passwords that need to be frequently changed for access to trivial resources, e.g., to use
a black-and-white printer . Complex password requirements can also cause users to store the passwords in an unsafe manner so they
don't have to remember them, such as using a sticky note or saving them in an unencrypted file.
Example 3
Some CAPTCHA utilities produce images that are too dif ficult for a human to read, causing user frustration.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Where possible, perform human factors and usability studies to identify where your product's security mechanisms are dif ficult to
use, and why .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Make the security mechanism as seamless as possible, while also providing the user with suf ficient details when a security
decision produces unexpected results.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-655: Insuﬃcient Psychological Acceptability (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/655.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 995 SFP Secondary Cluster: Feature
MemberOf 1379 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Human factors in ICS environments
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Other
This weakness covers many security measures causing user inconvenience, requiring ef fort or causing frustration, that are
disproportionate to the risks or value of the protected assets, or that are perceived to be inef fective.
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-1 Req 4.3.3.6
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
 References
[REF-196] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder . "The Protection of Information in Computer Systems". Proceedings of
the IEEE 63. 1975-09. < http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/ >.
[REF-539] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Psychological Acceptability". 2005-09-15.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-540] J. D. Tygar and Alma Whitten. "Usability of Security: A Case Study". SCS Technical Report Collection, CMU-CS-98-
155. 1998-12-15. < http://reports-archive.adm.cs.cmu.edu/anon/1998/CMU-CS-98-155.pdf >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 14: Poor Usability ." Page
217. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-18
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Pascal Meunier Purdue University
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-07-16 Nicolai Plum
Provided new links for a reference that improved multiple CWEs.
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
