3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1244: Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1244.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1244: Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State
Weakness ID: 1244
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses physical debug or test interfaces with support for multiple access levels, but it assigns the wrong debug access
level to an internal asset, providing unintended access to the asset from untrusted debug agents.
 Extended Description
Debug authorization can have multiple levels of access, defined such that dif ferent system internal assets are accessible based on
the current authorized debug level. Other than debugger authentication (e.g., using passwords or challenges), the authorization can
also be based on the system state or boot stage. For example, full system debug access might only be allowed early in boot after a
system reset to ensure that previous session data is not accessible to the authenticated debugger .
If this protection mechanism does not ensure that internal assets have the correct debug access level during each boot stage or
change in system state, an attacker could obtain sensitive information from the internal asset using a debugger .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 863 Incorrect Authorization
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
Authorization
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The JT AG interface is used to perform debugging and provide CPU core access for developers. JT AG-access protection is
implemented as part of the JT AG\_SHIELD bit in the hw\_digctl\_ctrl register . This register has no default value at power up and is set
only after the system boots from ROM and control is transferred to the user software.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1244: Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1244.html 2/4This means that since the end user has access to JT AG at system reset and during ROM code execution before control is transferred
to user software, a JT AG user can modify the boot flow and subsequently disclose all CPU information, including data-encryption
keys.
Example 2
The example code below is taken from the CV A6 processor core of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton SoC. Debug access allows
users to access internal hardware registers that are otherwise not exposed for user access or restricted access through access
control protocols. Hence, requests to enter debug mode are checked and authorized only if the processor has suf ficient privileges. In
addition, debug accesses are also locked behind password checkers. Thus, the processor enters debug mode only when the privilege
level requirement is met, and the correct debug password is provided.
The following code [ REF-1377 ] illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of debug mode. The core correctly checks if the
debug requests have suf ficient privileges and enables the debug\_mode\_d and debug\_mode\_q signals. It also correctly checks for
debug password and enables umode\_i signal.
However , it grants debug access and changes the privilege level, priv\_lvl\_o, even when one of the two checks is satisfied and the
other is not. Because of this, debug access can be granted by simply requesting with suf ficient privileges (i.e., debug\_mode\_q is
enabled) and failing the password check (i.e., umode\_i is disabled). This allows an attacker to bypass the debug password checking
and gain debug access to the core, compromising the security of the processor .
A fix to this issue is to only change the privilege level of the processor when both checks are satisfied, i.e., the request has enough
privileges (i.e., debug\_mode\_q is enabled) and the password checking is successful (i.e., umode\_i is enabled) [ REF-1378 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-18827 After ROM code execution, JT AG access is disabled. But before the ROM code is executed, JT AG
access is possible, allowing a user full system access. This allows a user to modify the boot flow and
successfully bypass the secure-boot process.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation(bad code) Example Language: Other 
1 bit 0x0 = JTAG debugger is enabled (default)
JTAG\_SHIELD0x1 = JTAG debugger is disabled
(informative) 
The default value of this register bit should be set to 1 to prevent the JTAG from being enabled at system reset.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module csr\_regfile #(
...
// check that we actually want to enter debug depending on the privilege level we are currently in
unique case (priv\_lvl\_o)
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreakm;
...
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreaku;
...
assign priv\_lvl\_o = (debug\_mode\_q || umode\_i) ? riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M : priv\_lvl\_q;
...
debug\_mode\_q <= debug\_mode\_d;
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module csr\_regfile #(
...
// check that we actually want to enter debug depending on the privilege level we are currently in
unique case (priv\_lvl\_o)
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreakm;
...
riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U: begin
debug\_mode\_d = dcsr\_q.ebreaku;
...
assign priv\_lvl\_o = (debug\_mode\_q && umode\_i) ? riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_M : priv\_lvl\_q;
...
debug\_mode\_q <= debug\_mode\_d;
...3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1244: Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1244.html 3/4For security-sensitive assets accessible over debug/test interfaces, only allow trusted agents.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Apply blinding [ REF-1219 ] or masking techniques in strategic areas.
Effectiveness: Limited
Phase: Implementation
Add shielding or tamper-resistant protections to the device, which increases the dif ficulty and cost for accessing debug/test
interfaces.
Effectiveness: Limited
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Check 2 devices for their passcode to authenticate access to JT AG/debugging ports. If the passcodes are missing or the same,
update the design to fix and retest. Check communications over JT AG/debugging ports for encryption. If the communications are
not encrypted, fix the design and retest.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-1191 and CWE-1244 both involve physical debug access, but the weaknesses are dif ferent. CWE-1191 is ef fectively about
missing authorization for a debug interface, i.e. JT AG. CWE-1244 is about providing internal assets with the wrong debug access
level, exposing the asset to untrusted debug agents.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-114 Authentication Abuse
 References
[REF-1056] F-Secure Labs. "Multiple V ulnerabilities in Barco Clickshare: JT AG access is not permanently disabled".
.
[REF-1057] Kurt Rosenfeld and Ramesh Karri. "Attacks and Defenses for JT AG". < https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?
tp=&arnumber=5406671 >.
[REF-1219] Monodeep Kar , Arvind Singh, Santosh Ghosh, Sanu Mathew , Anand Rajan, V ivek De, Raheem Beyah and Saibal
Mukhopadhyay . "Blindsight: Blinding EM Side-Channel Leakage using Built-In Fully Integrated Inductive V oltage Regulator".
2018-02. < https://arxiv .org/pdf/1802.09096.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1377] "csr\_regile.sv line 938". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/57e7b2109c1ea2451914878df2e6ca740c2dcf34/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L938 >. URL validated: 2023-12-13 .
[REF-1378] "Fix for csr\_regfile.sv line 938". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/a7b61209e56c48eec585eeedea8413997ec71e4a/src/csr\_regfile.sv#L938C31-L938C56 >. URL
validated: 2023-12-13 .
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1244: Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1244.html 4/4
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
clarified differences between CWE-1191 and CWE-1244, and suggested rephrasing of descriptions and
names.
2023-11-07 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-07 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names