3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1392: Use of Default Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1392.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1392: Use of Default Credentials
Weakness ID: 1392
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses default credentials (such as passwords or cryptographic keys) for potentially critical functionality .
 Extended Description
It is common practice for products to be designed to use default keys, passwords, or other mechanisms for authentication. The
rationale is to simplify the manufacturing process or the system administrator's task of installation and deployment into an enterprise.
However , if admins do not change the defaults, it is easier for attackers to bypass authentication quickly across multiple organizations.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1391 Use of W eak Credentials
ParentOf 1393 Use of Default Password
ParentOf 1394 Use of Default Cryptographic Key
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AuthenticationTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
At least one OT product used default credentials.
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1392: Use of Default Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1392.html 2/2CVE-2022-30270 Remote Terminal Unit (R TU) uses default credentials for some SSH accounts
CVE-2021-41192 data visualization/sharing package uses default secret keys or cookie values if they are not specified in
environment variables
CVE-2021-38759 microcontroller board has default password
CVE-2010-2306 Intrusion Detection System (IDS) uses the same static, private SSL keys for multiple devices and
installations, allowing decryption of SSL traffic
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Prohibit use of default, hard-coded, or other values that do not vary for each installation of the product - especially for separate
organizations.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Force the administrator to change the credential upon installation.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Installation; Operation
The product administrator could change the defaults upon installation or during operation.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2022-10-07
(CWE 4.9, 2022-10-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
