3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-99: Improper Control of Resource Identiﬁers ('Resource Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/99.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-99: Improper Control of Resource Identifiers ('Resource Injection')
Weakness ID: 99
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not restrict or incorrectly restricts the input before it is used as an
identifier for a resource that may be outside the intended sphere of control.
 Extended Description
A resource injection issue occurs when the following two conditions are met:
1. An attacker can specify the identifier used to access a system resource. For example, an attacker might be able to specify
part of the name of a file to be opened or a port number to be used.
2. By specifying the resource, the attacker gains a capability that would not otherwise be permitted. For example, the program
may give the attacker the ability to overwrite the specified file, run with a configuration controlled by the attacker , or transmit
sensitive information to a third-party server .
This may enable an attacker to access or modify otherwise protected system resources.
 Alternate T erms
Insecure Direct Object Reference: OWASP uses this term, although it is ef fectively the same as resource injection.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
ParentOf 641 Improper Restriction of Names for Files and Other Resources
ParentOf 694 Use of Multiple Resources with Duplicate Identifier
ParentOf 914 Improper Control of Dynamically-Identified V ariables
PeerOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
CanAlsoBe 73 External Control of File Name or Path
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data; Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
An attacker could gain access to or modify sensitive data or system resources. This could allow
access to protected files or directories including configuration files and files containing sensitive
information.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-99: Improper Control of Resource Identiﬁers ('Resource Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/99.html 2/3The following Java code uses input from an HTTP request to create a file name. The programmer has not considered the possibility
that an attacker could provide a file name such as "../../tomcat/conf/server .xml", which causes the application to delete one of its own
configuration files.
Example 2
The following code uses input from the command line to determine which file to open and echo back to the user . If the program runs
with privileges and malicious users can create soft links to the file, they can use the program to read the first part of any file on the
system.
The kind of resource the data af fects indicates the kind of content that may be dangerous. For example, data containing special
characters like period, slash, and backslash, are risky when used in methods that interact with the file system. (Resource injection,
when it is related to file system resources, sometimes goes by the name "path manipulation.") Similarly , data that contains URLs and
URIs is risky for functions that create remote connections.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2013-4787 chain: mobile OS verifies cryptographic signature of file in an archive, but then installs a dif ferent file
with the same name that is also listed in the archive.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
it can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 932 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1005 7PK - Input V alidation and Representation
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String rName = request.getParameter("reportName");
File rFile = new File("/usr/local/apfr/reports/" + rName);
...
rFile.delete();
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
ifstream ifs(argv[0]);
string s;
ifs >> s;
cout << s;3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-99: Improper Control of Resource Identiﬁers ('Resource Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/99.html 3/3MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
Resource injection that involves resources stored on the filesystem goes by the name path manipulation ( CWE-73 ).
Maintenance
The relationship between CWE-99 and CWE-610 needs further investigation and clarification. They might be duplicates. CWE-99
"Resource Injection," as originally defined in Seven Pernicious Kingdoms taxonomy , emphasizes the "identifier used to access a
system resource" such as a file name or port number , yet it explicitly states that the "resource injection" term does not apply to "path
manipulation," which ef fectively identifies the path at which a resource can be found and could be considered to be one aspect of a
resource identifier . Also, CWE-610 effectively covers any type of resource, whether that resource is at the system layer , the
application layer , or the code layer .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Resource Injection
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-99
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-10 Buffer Overflow via Environment V ariables
CAPEC-240 Resource Injection
CAPEC-75 Manipulating W riteable Configuration Files
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-99. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
