3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1298: Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1298.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1298: Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions
Weakness ID: 1298
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A race condition in the hardware logic results in undermining security guarantees of the system.
 Extended Description
A race condition in logic circuits typically occurs when a logic gate gets inputs from signals that have traversed dif ferent paths while
originating from the same source. Such inputs to the gate can change at slightly dif ferent times in response to a change in the source
signal. This results in a timing error or a glitch (temporary or permanent) that causes the output to change to an unwanted state before
settling back to the desired state. If such timing errors occur in access control logic or finite state machines that are implemented in
security sensitive flows, an attacker might exploit them to circumvent existing protections.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The code below shows a 2x1 multiplexor using logic gates. Though the code shown below results in the minimum gate solution, it is
disjoint and causes glitches.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
// 2x1 Multiplexor using logic-gates
module glitchEx(
input wire in0, in1, sel,
output wire z
);
wire not\_sel;
wire and\_out1, and\_out2;3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1298: Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1298.html 2/4The buggy line of code, commented above, results in signal 'z' periodically changing to an unwanted state. Thus, any logic that
references signal 'z' may access it at a time when it is in this unwanted state. This line should be replaced with the line shown below
in the Good Code Snippet which results in signal 'z' remaining in a continuous, known, state. Reference for the above code, along
with waveforms for simulation can be found in the references below .
This line of code removes the glitch in signal z.
Example 2
The example code is taken from the DMA (Direct Memory Access) module of the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21. The DMA
contains a finite-state machine (FSM) for accessing the permissions using the physical memory protection (PMP) unit.
PMP provides secure regions of physical memory against unauthorized access. It allows an operating system or a hypervisor to
define a series of physical memory regions and then set permissions for those regions, such as read, write, and execute permissions.
When a user tries to access a protected memory area (e.g., through DMA), PMP checks the access of a PMP address (e.g.,
pmpaddr\_i) against its configuration (pmpcfg\_i). If the access violates the defined permissions (e.g., CTRL\_ABOR T), the PMP can
trigger a fault or an interrupt. This access check is implemented in the pmp parametrized module in the below code snippet. The
below code assumes that the state of the pmpaddr\_i and pmpcfg\_i signals will not change during the dif ferent DMA states (i.e.,
CTRL\_IDLE to CTRL\_DONE) while processing a DMA request (via dma\_ctrl\_reg). The DMA state machine is implemented using a
case statement (not shown in the code snippet).
However , the above code [ REF-1394 ] allows the values of pmpaddr\_i and pmpcfg\_i to be changed through DMA's input ports. This
causes a race condition and will enable attackers to access sensitive addresses that the configuration is not associated with.
Attackers can initialize the DMA access process (CTRL\_IDLE) using pmpcfg\_i for a non-privileged PMP address (pmpaddr\_i). Then
during the loading state (CTRL\_LOAD), attackers can replace the non-privileged address in pmpaddr\_i with a privileged address
without the requisite authorized access configuration.assign not\_sel = ~sel;
assign and\_out1 = not\_sel & in0;
assign and\_out2 = sel & in1;
// Buggy line of code:
assign z = and\_out1 | and\_out2; // glitch in signal z
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign z <= and\_out1 or and\_out2 or (in0 and in1);
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module dma # (...)(...);
...
input [7:0] [16-1:0] pmpcfg\_i;
input logic [16-1:0][53:0] pmpaddr\_i;
...
//// Save the input command
always @ (posedge clk\_i or negedge rst\_ni)
begin: save\_inputs
if (!rst\_ni)
begin
...
end
else
begin
if (dma\_ctrl\_reg == CTRL\_IDLE || dma\_ctrl\_reg == CTRL\_DONE)
begin
...
end
end
end // save\_inputs
...
// Load/store PMP check
pmp #(
.XLEN ( 64 ),
.PMP\_LEN ( 54 ),
.NR\_ENTRIES ( 16 )
) i\_pmp\_data (
.addr\_i ( pmp\_addr\_reg ),
.priv\_lvl\_i ( riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U ),
.access\_type\_i ( pmp\_access\_type\_reg ),
// Configuration
.conf\_addr\_i ( pmpaddr\_i ),
.conf\_i ( pmpcfg\_i ),
.allow\_o ( pmp\_data\_allow )
);
endmodule3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1298: Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1298.html 3/4To fix this issue (see [ REF-1395 ]), the value of the pmpaddr\_i and pmpcfg\_i signals should be stored in local registers (pmpaddr\_reg
and pmpcfg\_reg at the start of the DMA access process and the pmp module should reference those registers instead of the signals
directly . The values of the registers can only be updated at the start (CTRL\_IDLE) or the end (CTRL\_DONE) of the DMA access
process, which prevents attackers from changing the PMP address in the middle of the DMA access process.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Adopting design practices that encourage designers to recognize and eliminate race conditions, such as Karnaugh maps, could
result in the decrease in occurrences of race conditions.
Phase: Implementation
Logic redundancy can be implemented along security critical paths to prevent race conditions. To avoid metastability , it is a good
practice in general to default to a secure state in which access is not given to untrusted agents.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module dma # (...)(...);
...
input [7:0] [16-1:0] pmpcfg\_i;
input logic [16-1:0][53:0] pmpaddr\_i;
...
reg [7:0] [16-1:0] pmpcfg\_reg;
reg [16-1:0][53:0] pmpaddr\_reg;
...
//// Save the input command
always @ (posedge clk\_i or negedge rst\_ni)
begin: save\_inputs
if (!rst\_ni)
begin
...
pmpaddr\_reg <= 'b0 ;
pmpcfg\_reg <= 'b0 ;
end
else
begin
if (dma\_ctrl\_reg == CTRL\_IDLE || dma\_ctrl\_reg == CTRL\_DONE)
begin
...
pmpaddr\_reg <= pmpaddr\_i;
pmpcfg\_reg <= pmpcfg\_i;
end
end
end // save\_inputs
...
// Load/store PMP check
pmp #(
.XLEN ( 64 ),
.PMP\_LEN ( 54 ),
.NR\_ENTRIES ( 16 )
) i\_pmp\_data (
.addr\_i ( pmp\_addr\_reg ),
.priv\_lvl\_i ( riscv::PRIV\_LVL\_U ), // we intend to apply filter on
// DMA always, so choose the least privilege .access\_type\_i ( pmp\_access\_type\_reg ),
// Configuration
.conf\_addr\_i ( pmpaddr\_reg ),
.conf\_i ( pmpcfg\_reg ),
.allow\_o ( pmp\_data\_allow )
);
endmodule3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1298: Hardware Logic Contains Race Conditions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1298.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
 References
[REF-1115] Meher Krishna Patel. "FPGA designs with V erilog (section 7.4 Glitches)".
.
[REF-1116] Clif ford E. Cummings. "Non-Blocking Assignments in V erilog Synthesis, Coding Styles that Kill!". 2000.
.
[REF-1394] "dma.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/main/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/dma/dma.sv >. URL validated: 2024-02-09 .
[REF-1395] "Fix for dma.sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/cwe\_1298\_in\_dma/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/dma/dma.sv >. URL validated: 2024-02-09 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-29 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-29 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications