3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-315: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in a Cookie (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/315.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-315: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in a Cookie
Weakness ID: 315
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in cleartext in a cookie.
 Extended Description
Attackers can use widely-available tools to view the cookie and read the sensitive information. Even if the information is encoded in a
way that is not human-readable, certain techniques could determine which encoding is being used, then decode the information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code excerpt stores a plaintext user account ID in a browser cookie.
Because the account ID is in plaintext, the user's account information is exposed if their computer is compromised by an attacker .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1800 Admin password in cleartext in a cookie.
CVE-2001-1537 Default configuration has cleartext usernames/passwords in cookie.
CVE-2001-1536 Usernames/passwords in cleartext in cookies.
CVE-2005-2160 Authentication information stored in cleartext in a cookie.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
response.addCookie( new Cookie("userAccountID", acctID);3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-315: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in a Cookie (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/315.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Different people use "cleartext" and "plaintext" to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However , within cryptography , these
have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-
encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-
readable (such as base64 encoding).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Storage in Cookie
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-31 Accessing/Intercepting/Modifying HTTP Cookies
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
CAPEC-39 Manipulating Opaque Client-based Data Tokens
CAPEC-74 Manipulating State
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
