3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-135: Incorrect Calculation of Multi-Byte String Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/135.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-135: Incorrect Calculation of Multi-Byte String Length
Weakness ID: 135
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not correctly calculate the length of strings that can contain wide or multi-byte characters.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 133 String Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThere are several ways in which improper string length checking may result in an exploitable condition. All of
these, however , involve the introduction of buf fer overflow conditions in order to reach an exploitable state.
The first of these issues takes place when the output of a wide or multi-byte character string, string-length
function is used as a size for the allocation of memory . While this will result in an output of the number of
characters in the string, note that the characters are most likely not a single byte, as they are with standard
character strings. So, using the size returned as the size sent to new or malloc and copying the string to this
newly allocated memory will result in a buf fer overflow .
Another common way these strings are misused involves the mixing of standard string and wide or multi-byte
string functions on a single string. Invariably , this mismatched information will result in the creation of a possibly
exploitable buf fer overflow condition.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
This weakness may lead to a buf fer overflow . Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary
code, which is usually outside the scope of a program's implicit security policy . This can often be
used to subvert any other security service.
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Memory)
Out of bounds memory access will very likely result in the corruption of relevant memory , and
perhaps instructions, possibly leading to a crash. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are
possible, including putting the program into an infinite loop.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
In the case of an out-of-bounds read, the attacker may have access to sensitive information. If the
sensitive information contains system details, such as the current buf fers position in memory , this
knowledge can be used to craft further attacks, possibly with more severe consequences.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-135: Incorrect Calculation of Multi-Byte String Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/135.html 2/3The following example would be exploitable if any of the commented incorrect malloc calls were used.
The output from the printf() statement would be:
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Always verify the length of the string unit character .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use length computing functions (e.g. strlen, wcslen, etc.) appropriately with their equivalent type (e.g.: byte, wchar\_t, etc.)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 974 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Buf fer Length Computation
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
#include 
int main() {
wchar\_t wideString[] = L"The spazzy orange tiger jumped " \
"over the tawny jaguar.";
wchar\_t \*newString;
printf("Strlen() output: %d\nWcslen() output: %d\n",
strlen(wideString), wcslen(wideString));
/\* Wrong because the number of chars in a string isn't related to its length in bytes //
newString = (wchar\_t \*) malloc(strlen(wideString));
\*/
/\* Wrong because wide characters aren't 1 byte long! //
newString = (wchar\_t \*) malloc(wcslen(wideString));
\*/
/\* Wrong because wcslen does not include the terminating null \*/
newString = (wchar\_t \*) malloc(wcslen(wideString) \* sizeof(wchar\_t));
/\* correct! \*/
newString = (wchar\_t \*) malloc((wcslen(wideString) + 1) \* sizeof(wchar\_t));
/\* ... \*/
}
(result) 
Strlen() output: 0
Wcslen() output: 533/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-135: Incorrect Calculation of Multi-Byte String Length (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/135.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Improper string length checking
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO10-J Ensure the array is filled when using read() to fill an array
Software Fault Patterns SFP10 Incorrect Buf fer Length Computation
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Unicode and ANSI Buf fer Size Mismatches"
Page 153. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2010-01-11 Gregory Padgett Unitrends
correction to Demonstrative\_Example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names