3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-20: Improper Input Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/20.html 1/10
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-20: Improper Input V alidation
Weakness ID: 20
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input or data, but it does not validate or incorrectly validates that the input has the properties that are required to
process the data safely and correctly .
 Extended Description
Input validation is a frequently-used technique for checking potentially dangerous inputs in order to ensure that the inputs are safe for
processing within the code, or when communicating with other components. When software does not validate input properly , an
attacker is able to craft the input in a form that is not expected by the rest of the application. This will lead to parts of the system
receiving unintended input, which may result in altered control flow , arbitrary control of a resource, or arbitrary code execution.
Input validation is not the only technique for processing input, however . Other techniques attempt to transform potentially-dangerous
input into something safe, such as filtering ( CWE-790 ) - which attempts to remove dangerous inputs - or encoding/escaping ( CWE-
116), which attempts to ensure that the input is not misinterpreted when it is included in output to another component. Other
techniques exist as well (see CWE-138 for more examples.)
Input validation can be applied to:
raw data - strings, numbers, parameters, file contents, etc.
metadata - information about the raw data, such as headers or size
Data can be simple or structured. Structured data can be composed of many nested layers, composed of combinations of metadata
and raw data, with other simple or structured data.
Many properties of raw data or metadata may need to be validated upon entry into the code, such as:
specified quantities such as size, length, frequency , price, rate, number of operations, time, etc.
implied or derived quantities, such as the actual size of a file instead of a specified size
indexes, of fsets, or positions into more complex data structures
symbolic keys or other elements into hash tables, associative arrays, etc.
well-formedness, i.e. syntactic correctness - compliance with expected syntax
lexical token correctness - compliance with rules for what is treated as a token
specified or derived type - the actual type of the input (or what the input appears to be)
consistency - between individual data elements, between raw data and metadata, between references, etc.
conformance to domain-specific rules, e.g. business logic
equivalence - ensuring that equivalent inputs are treated the same
authenticity , ownership, or other attestations about the input, e.g. a cryptographic signature to prove the source of the data
Implied or derived properties of data must often be calculated or inferred by the code itself. Errors in deriving properties may be
considered a contributing factor to improper input validation.
Note that "input validation" has very dif ferent meanings to dif ferent people, or within dif ferent classification schemes. Caution must be
used when referencing this CWE entry or mapping to it. For example, some weaknesses might involve inadvertently giving control to
an attacker over an input when they should not be able to provide an input at all, but sometimes this is referred to as input validation.
Finally , it is important to emphasize that the distinctions between input validation and output escaping are often blurred, and
developers must be careful to understand the dif ference, including how input validation is not always suf ficient to prevent
vulnerabilities, especially when less stringent data types must be supported, such as free-form text. Consider a SQL injection scenario
in which a person's last name is inserted into a query . The name "O'Reilly" would likely pass the validation step since it is a common
last name in the English language. However , this valid name cannot be directly inserted into the database because it contains the "'"
apostrophe character , which would need to be escaped or otherwise transformed. In this case, removing the apostrophe might reduce
the risk of SQL injection, but it would produce incorrect behavior because the wrong name would be recorded.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
ParentOf 179 Incorrect Behavior Order: Early V alidation
ParentOf 622 Improper V alidation of Function Hook Arguments
ParentOf 1173 Improper Use of V alidation Framework
ParentOf 1284 Improper V alidation of Specified Quantity in Input
ParentOf 1285 Improper V alidation of Specified Index, Position, or Of fset in InputAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-20: Improper Input Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/20.html 2/10ParentOf 1286 Improper V alidation of Syntactic Correctness of Input
ParentOf 1287 Improper V alidation of Specified Type of Input
ParentOf 1288 Improper V alidation of Consistency within Input
ParentOf 1289 Improper V alidation of Unsafe Equivalence in Input
PeerOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
CanPrecede 22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
CanPrecede 41 Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
CanPrecede 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 770 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
If a programmer believes that an attacker cannot modify certain inputs, then the programmer might not
perform any input validation at all. For example, in web applications, many programmers believe that
cookies and hidden form fields can not be modified from a web browser ( CWE-472 ), although they can
be altered using a proxy or a custom program. In a client-server architecture, the programmer might
assume that client-side security checks cannot be bypassed, even when a custom client could be
written that skips those checks ( CWE-602 ).
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory)
An attacker could provide unexpected values and cause a program crash or excessive consumption
of resources, such as memory and CPU.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Files or Directories
An attacker could read confidential data if they are able to control resource references.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could use malicious input to modify data or possibly alter control flow in unexpected
ways, including arbitrary command execution.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example demonstrates a shopping interaction in which the user is free to specify the quantity of items to be purchased and a
total is calculated.
The user has no control over the price variable, however the code does not prevent a negative value from being specified for quantity .
If an attacker were to provide a negative value, then the user would have their account credited instead of debited.
Example 2
This example asks the user for a height and width of an m X n game board with a maximum dimension of 100 squares.
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
public static final double price = 20.00;
int quantity = currentUser.getAttribute("quantity");
double total = price \* quantity;
chargeUser(total);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-20: Improper Input Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/20.html 3/10While this code checks to make sure the user cannot specify large, positive integers and consume too much memory , it does not
check for negative values supplied by the user . As a result, an attacker can perform a resource consumption ( CWE-400 ) attack
against this program by specifying two, large negative values that will not overflow , resulting in a very large memory allocation ( CWE-
789) and possibly a system crash. Alternatively , an attacker can provide very large negative values which will cause an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ) and unexpected behavior will follow depending on how the values are treated in the remainder of the program.
Example 3
The following example shows a PHP application in which the programmer attempts to display a user's birthday and homepage.
The programmer intended for $birthday to be in a date format and $homepage to be a valid URL. However , since the values are
derived from an HTTP request, if an attacker can trick a victim into clicking a crafted URL with 