3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1319: Improper Protection against Electromagnetic Fault Injection (EM-FI) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1319.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1319: Improper Protection against Electromagnetic Fault Injection (EM-FI)
Weakness ID: 1319
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device is susceptible to electromagnetic fault injection attacks, causing device internal information to be compromised or security
mechanisms to be bypassed.
 Extended Description
Electromagnetic fault injection may allow an attacker to locally and dynamically modify the signals (both internal and external) of an
integrated circuit. EM-FI attacks consist of producing a local, transient magnetic field near the device, inducing current in the device
wires. A typical EMFI setup is made up of a pulse injection circuit that generates a high current transient in an EMI coil, producing an
abrupt magnetic pulse which couples to the target producing faults in the device, which can lead to:
Bypassing security mechanisms such as secure JT AG or Secure Boot
Leaking device information
Modifying program flow
Perturbing secure hardware modules (e.g. random number generators)
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Power Management Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Test/Debug Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Sensor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism;
Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1319: Improper Protection against Electromagnetic Fault Injection (EM-FI) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1319.html 2/3Access Control
Availability
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In many devices, security related information is stored in fuses. These fuses are loaded into shadow registers at boot time. Disturbing
this transfer phase with EM-FI can lead to the shadow registers storing erroneous values potentially resulting in reduced security .
Colin O'Flynn has demonstrated an attack scenario which uses electro-magnetic glitching during booting to bypass security and gain
read access to flash, read and erase access to shadow memory area (where the private password is stored). Most devices in the
MPC55xx and MPC56xx series that include the Boot Assist Module (BAM) (a serial or CAN bootloader mode) are susceptible to this
attack. In this paper , a GM ECU was used as a real life target. While the success rate appears low (less than 2 percent), in practice a
success can be found within 1-5 minutes once the EMFI tool is setup. In a practical scenario, the author showed that success can be
achieved within 30-60 minutes from a cold start.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-27211 Chain: microcontroller system-on-chip uses a register value stored in flash to set product protection
state on the memory bus and does not contain protection against fault injection ( CWE-1319 ) which
leads to an incorrect initialization of the memory bus ( CWE-1419 ) causing the product to be in an
unprotected state.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
1. Redundancy - By replicating critical operations and comparing the two outputs can help indicate whether a fault has
been injected.
2. Error detection and correction codes - Gay , Mael, et al. proposed a new scheme that not only detects faults injected
by a malicious adversary but also automatically corrects single nibble/byte errors introduced by low-multiplicity faults.
3. Fail by default coding - When checking conditions (switch or if) check all possible cases and fail by default because
the default case in a switch (or the else part of a cascaded if-else-if construct) is used for dealing with the last possible
(and valid) value without checking. This is prone to fault injection because this alternative is easily selected as a result
of potential data manipulation [ REF-1141 ].
4. Random Behavior - adding random delays before critical operations, so that timing is not predictable.
5. Program Flow Integrity Protection - The program flow can be secured by integrating run-time checking aiming at
detecting control flow inconsistencies. One such example is tagging the source code to indicate the points not to be
bypassed [ REF-1147 ].
6. Sensors - Usage of sensors can detect variations in voltage and current.
7. Shields - physical barriers to protect the chips from malicious manipulation.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is attack-oriented and may require significant modification in future versions, or even deprecation. It is not clear whether
there is really a design "mistake" that enables such attacks, so this is not necessarily a weakness and may be more appropriate for
CAPEC.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1319: Improper Protection against Electromagnetic Fault Injection (EM-FI) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1319.html 3/3[REF-1141] Marc Witteman. "Secure Application Programming in the presence of Side Channel Attacks". 2017.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1142] A. Dehbaoui, J. M. Dutertre, B. Robisson, P . Orsatelli, P . Maurine, A. Tria. "Injection of transient faults using
electromagnetic pulses. Practical results on a cryptographic system". 2012. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2012/123.pdf >.
[REF-1143] A. Menu, S. Bhasin, J. M. Dutertre, J. B. Rigaud, J. Danger . "Precise Spatio-T emporal Electromagnetic Fault
Injections on Data Transfers". 2019. < https://hal.telecom-paris.fr/hal-02338456/document >.
[REF-1144] Colin O'Flynn. "BAM BAM!! On Reliability of EMFI for in-situ Automotive ECU Attacks".
.
[REF-1145] J. Balasch, D. Arumí, S. Manich. "Design and V alidation of a Platform for Electromagnetic Fault Injection".
.
[REF-1146] M. Gay , B. Karp, O. Keren, I. Polian. "Error control scheme for malicious and natural faults in cryptographic modules".
2019. < https://link.springer .com/content/pdf/10.1007/s13389-020-00234-7.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1147] M. L. Akkar , L. Goubin, O. L y. "Automatic Integration of Counter-Measures Against Fault Injection Attacks".
.
[REF-1285] Texas Instruments. "Physical Security Attacks Against Silicon Devices". 2022-01-31.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-08-27
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Sebastien Leger , Rohini Narasipur Bosch
 Modifications