3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-377: Insecure Temporary File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/377.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-377: Insecure T emporary File
Weakness ID: 377
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
Creating and using insecure temporary files can leave application and system data vulnerable to attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ParentOf 378 Creation of Temporary File With Insecure Permissions
ParentOf 379 Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses a temporary file for storing intermediate data gathered from the network before it is processed.
This otherwise unremarkable code is vulnerable to a number of dif ferent attacks because it relies on an insecure method for creating
temporary files. The vulnerabilities introduced by this function and others are described in the following sections. The most egregious
security problems related to temporary file creation have occurred on Unix-based operating systems, but Windows applications have
parallel risks. This section includes a discussion of temporary file creation on both Unix and Windows systems. Methods and
behaviors can vary between systems, but the fundamental risks introduced by each are reasonably constant.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-41954 A library uses the Java File.createT empFile() method which creates a file with "-rw-r--r--" default
permissions on Unix-like operating systems
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building aAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (tmpnam\_r(filename)) {
FILE\* tmp = fopen(filename,"wb+");
while((recv(sock,recvbuf,DATA\_SIZE, 0) > 0)&(amt!=0)) amt = fwrite(recvbuf,1,DATA\_SIZE,tmp);
}
...3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-377: Insecure Temporary File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/377.html 2/3model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 361 7PK - Time and State
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 964 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposure Temporary File
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1169 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 14. Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Other
Applications require temporary files so frequently that many dif ferent mechanisms exist for creating them in the C Library and
Windows(R) API. Most of these functions are vulnerable to various forms of attacks.
The functions designed to aid in the creation of temporary files can be broken into two groups based whether they simply provide a
filename or actually open a new file. - Group 1: "Unique" Filenames: The first group of C Library and WinAPI functions designed to
help with the process of creating temporary files do so by generating a unique file name for a new temporary file, which the program
is then supposed to open. This group includes C Library functions like tmpnam(), tempnam(), mktemp() and their C++ equivalents
prefaced with an \_ (underscore) as well as the GetT empFileName() function from the Windows API. This group of functions suf fers
from an underlying race condition on the filename chosen. Although the functions guarantee that the filename is unique at the time it
is selected, there is no mechanism to prevent another process or an attacker from creating a file with the same name after it is
selected but before the application attempts to open the file. Beyond the risk of a legitimate collision caused by another call to the
same function, there is a high probability that an attacker will be able to create a malicious collision because the filenames
generated by these functions are not suf ficiently randomized to make them dif ficult to guess. If a file with the selected name is
created, then depending on how the file is opened the existing contents or access permissions of the file may remain intact. If the
existing contents of the file are malicious in nature, an attacker may be able to inject dangerous data into the application when it
reads data back from the temporary file. If an attacker pre-creates the file with relaxed access permissions, then data stored in the
temporary file by the application may be accessed, modified or corrupted by an attacker . On Unix based systems an even more
insidious attack is possible if the attacker pre-creates the file as a link to another important file. Then, if the application truncates or
writes data to the file, it may unwittingly perform damaging operations for the attacker . This is an especially serious threat if the
program operates with elevated permissions. Finally , in the best case the file will be opened with the a call to open() using the
O\_CREA T and O\_EXCL flags or to CreateFile() using the CREA TE\_NEW attribute, which will fail if the file already exists and
therefore prevent the types of attacks described above. However , if an attacker is able to accurately predict a sequence of temporary
file names, then the application may be prevented from opening necessary temporary storage causing a denial of service (DoS)
attack. This type of attack would not be dif ficult to mount given the small amount of randomness used in the selection of the
filenames generated by these functions. - Group 2: "Unique" Files: The second group of C Library functions attempts to resolve
some of the security problems related to temporary files by not only generating a unique file name, but also opening the file. This
group includes C Library functions like tmpfile() and its C++ equivalents prefaced with an \_ (underscore), as well as the slightly
better-behaved C Library function mkstemp(). The tmpfile() style functions construct a unique filename and open it in the same way
that fopen() would if passed the flags "wb+", that is, as a binary file in read/write mode. If the file already exists, tmpfile() will truncate
it to size zero, possibly in an attempt to assuage the security concerns mentioned earlier regarding the race condition that exists
between the selection of a supposedly unique filename and the subsequent opening of the selected file. However , this behavior
clearly does not solve the function's security problems. First, an attacker can pre-create the file with relaxed access-permissions that
will likely be retained by the file opened by tmpfile(). Furthermore, on Unix based systems if the attacker pre-creates the file as a link
to another important file, the application may use its possibly elevated permissions to truncate that file, thereby doing damage on
behalf of the attacker . Finally , if tmpfile() does create a new file, the access permissions applied to that file will vary from one
operating system to another , which can leave application data vulnerable even if an attacker is unable to predict the filename to be
used in advance. Finally , mkstemp() is a reasonably safe way create temporary files. It will attempt to create and open a unique file
based on a filename template provided by the user combined with a series of randomly generated characters. If it is unable to create
such a file, it will fail and return -1. On modern systems the file is opened using mode 0600, which means the file will be secure from
tampering unless the user explicitly changes its access permissions. However , mkstemp() still suf fers from the use of predictable file
names and can leave an application vulnerable to denial of service attacks if an attacker causes mkstemp() to fail by predicting and
pre-creating the filenames to be used.
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-377: Insecure Temporary File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/377.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Insecure Temporary File
CER T C Secure Coding CON33-C Imprecise Avoid race conditions when using library functions
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO00-J Do not operate on files in shared directories
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-149 Explore for Predictable Temporary File Names
CAPEC-155 Screen Temporary Files for Sensitive Information
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 23, "Creating Temporary Files Securely" Page 682.
2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "T emporary
Files", Page 538. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "File Squatting",
Page 662. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications