3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-375: Returning a Mutable Object to an Untrusted Caller (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/375.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-375: Returning a Mutable Object to an Untrusted Caller
Weakness ID: 375
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Sending non-cloned mutable data as a return value may result in that data being altered or deleted by the calling function.
 Extended Description
In situations where functions return references to mutable data, it is possible that the external code which called the function may
make changes to the data sent. If this data was not previously cloned, the class will then be using modified data which may violate
assumptions about its internal state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 371 State Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
Potentially data could be tampered with by another function which should not have been tampered
with.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This class has a private list of patients, but provides a way to see the list :About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class ClinicalTrial {
private PatientClass[] patientList = new PatientClass[50];
public getPatients(...){
return patientList;
}
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-375: Returning a Mutable Object to an Untrusted Caller (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/375.html 2/2While this code only means to allow reading of the patient list, the getPatients() method returns a reference to the class's original
patient list instead of a reference to a copy of the list. Any caller of this method can arbitrarily modify the contents of the patient list
even though it is a private member of the class.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Declare returned data which should not be altered as constant or immutable.
Phase: Implementation
Clone all mutable data before returning references to it. This is the preferred mitigation. This way , regardless of what changes
are made to the data, a valid copy is retained for use by the class.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 849 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 6 - Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1139 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 05. Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Mutable object returned
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)OBJ04-J Provide mutable classes with copy functionality to safely allow
passing instances to untrusted code
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)OBJ05-J Defensively copy private mutable class members before returning
their references
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP34-PL Imprecise Do not modify $\_ in list or sorting functions
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
