3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-463: Deletion of Data Structure Sentinel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/463.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-463: Deletion of Data Structure Sentinel
Weakness ID: 463
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The accidental deletion of a data-structure sentinel can cause serious programming logic problems.
 Extended Description
Often times data-structure sentinels are used to mark structure of the data structure. A common example of this is the null character at
the end of strings. Another common example is linked lists which may contain a sentinel to mark the end of the list. It is dangerous to
allow this type of control data to be easily accessible. Therefore, it is important to protect from the deletion or modification outside of
some wrapper interface which provides safety .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
PeerOf 464 Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
PeerOf 170 Improper Null Termination
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 137 Data Neutralization Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Generally this error will cause the data structure to not work properly .
Authorization
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
If a control character , such as NULL is removed, one may cause resource access control problems.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example creates a null terminated string and prints it contents.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*foo;
int counter;
foo=calloc(sizeof(char)\*10);
for (counter=0;counter!=10;counter++) {
foo[counter]='a';3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-463: Deletion of Data Structure Sentinel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/463.html 2/2The string foo has space for 9 characters and a null terminator , but 10 characters are written to it. As a result, the string foo is not null
terminated and calling printf() on it will have unpredictable and possibly dangerous results.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Not a complete solution.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that automatically provide a protection mechanism that mitigates or
eliminates buf fer overflows.
For example, certain compilers and extensions provide automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are built into the
compiled code. Examples include the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag,
StackGuard, and ProPolice.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms can only detect certain types of overflows. In addition,
an attack could still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Operation
Use OS-level preventative functionality . Not a complete solution.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Deletion of data-structure sentinel
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "NUL-
Termination Problems", Page 452. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
printf("%s\n",foo);
}