3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-268: Privilege Chaining (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/268.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-268: Privilege Chaining
Weakness ID: 268
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Two distinct privileges, roles, capabilities, or rights can be combined in a way that allows an entity to perform unsafe actions that
would not be allowed without that combination.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
A user can be given or gain access rights of another user . This can give the user unauthorized
access to sensitive information including the access information of another user .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code allows someone with the role of "ADMIN" or "OPERA TOR" to reset a user's password. The role of "OPERA TOR" is
intended to have less privileges than an "ADMIN", but still be able to help users with small issues such as forgotten passwords.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public enum Roles {
ADMIN,OPERATOR,USER,GUEST
}
public void resetPassword(User requestingUser, User user, String password ){
if(isAuthenticated(requestingUser)){
switch(requestingUser.role){
case GUEST:
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
case USER:
St titl("Y tthidt f thi d")3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-268: Privilege Chaining (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/268.html 2/3This code does not check the role of the user whose password is being reset. It is possible for an Operator to gain Admin privileges by
resetting the password of an Admin account and taking control of that account.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1736 Chaining of user rights.
CVE-2002-1772 Gain certain rights via privilege chaining in alternate channel.
CVE-2005-1973 Application is allowed to assign extra permissions to itself.
CVE-2003-0640 "operator" user can overwrite usernames and passwords to gain admin privileges.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a
system resource.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
There is some conceptual overlap with Unsafe Privilege.
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
default:
setPassword(user,password);
break;
}
}
else{
System.out.println("You must be logged in to perform this command");
}
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-268: Privilege Chaining (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/268.html 3/3
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Privilege Chaining
 References
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications