3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-457: Use of Uninitialized Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/457.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-457: Use of Uninitialized V ariable
Weakness ID: 457
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses a variable that has not been initialized, leading to unpredictable or unintended results.
 Extended Description
In some languages such as C and C++, stack variables are not initialized by default. They generally contain junk data with the
contents of stack memory before the function was invoked. An attacker can sometimes control or read these contents. In other
languages or conditions, a variable that is not explicitly initialized can be given a default value that has security implications,
depending on the logic of the program. The presence of an uninitialized variable can sometimes indicate a typographic error in the
code.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 908 Use of Uninitialized Resource
CanFollow 456 Missing Initialization of a V ariable
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationIn C, using an uninitialized char \* in some string libraries will return incorrect results, as the libraries expect the
null terminator to always be at the end of a string, even if the string is empty .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Sometimes Prevalent)
C++ (Sometimes Prevalent)
Perl (Often Prevalent)
PHP (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Initial variables usually contain junk, which can not be trusted for consistency . This can lead to denial
of service conditions, or modify control flow in unexpected ways. In some cases, an attacker can "pre-
initialize" the variable using previous actions, which might enable code execution. This can cause a
race condition if a lock variable check passes when it should not.
Authorization
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Strings that are not initialized are especially dangerous, since many functions expect a null at the end
-- and only at the end -- of a string.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code prints a greeting using information stored in a POST request:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-457: Use of Uninitialized Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/457.html 2/4This code checks if the POST array 'names' is set before assigning it to the $nameArray variable. However , if the array is not in the
POST request, $nameArray will remain uninitialized. This will cause an error when the array is accessed to print the greeting
message, which could lead to further exploit.
Example 2
The following switch statement is intended to set the values of the variables aN and bN before they are used:
In the default case of the switch statement, the programmer has accidentally set the value of aN twice. As a result, bN will have an
undefined value. Most uninitialized variable issues result in general software reliability problems, but if attackers can intentionally
trigger the use of an uninitialized variable, they might be able to launch a denial of service attack by crashing the program. Under the
right circumstances, an attacker may be able to control the value of an uninitialized variable by af fecting the values on the stack prior
to the invocation of the function.
Example 3
This example will leave test\_string in an unknown condition when i is the same value as err\_val, because test\_string is not initialized
(CWE-456 ). Depending on where this code segment appears (e.g. within a function body), test\_string might be random if it is stored
on the heap or stack. If the variable is declared in static memory , it might be zero or NULL. Compiler optimization might contribute to
the unpredictability of this address.
When the printf() is reached, test\_string might be an unexpected address, so the printf might print junk strings ( CWE-457 ).
To fix this code, there are a couple approaches to making sure that test\_string has been properly set once it reaches the printf().
One solution would be to set test\_string to an acceptable default before the conditional:
Another solution is to ensure that each branch of the conditional - including the default/else branch - could ensure that test\_string is
set:if (isset($\_POST['names'])) {
$nameArray = $\_POST['names'];
}
echo "Hello " . $nameArray['first'];
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int aN, Bn;
switch (ctl) {
case -1:
aN = 0;
bN = 0;
break;
case 0:
aN = i;
bN = -i;
break;
case 1:
aN = i + NEXT\_SZ;
bN = i - NEXT\_SZ;
break;
default:
aN = -1;
aN = -1;
break;
}
repaint(aN, bN);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);
(good code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string = "Done at the beginning";
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);
(good code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-457: Use of Uninitialized Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/457.html 3/4
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-15900 Chain: sscanf() call is used to check if a username and group exists, but the return value of sscanf()
call is not checked ( CWE-252 ), causing an uninitialized variable to be checked ( CWE-457 ), returning
success to allow authorization bypass for executing a privileged ( CWE-863 ).
CVE-2008-3688 Chain: A denial of service may be caused by an uninitialized variable ( CWE-457 ) allowing an infinite
loop ( CWE-835 ) resulting from a connection to an unresponsive server .
CVE-2008-0081 Uninitialized variable leads to code execution in popular desktop application.
CVE-2007-4682 Crafted input triggers dereference of an uninitialized object pointer .
CVE-2007-3468 Crafted audio file triggers crash when an uninitialized variable is used.
CVE-2007-2728 Uninitialized random seed variable used.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Assign all variables to an initial value.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Most compilers will complain about the use of uninitialized variables if warnings are turned on.
Phases: Implementation; Operation
When using a language that does not require explicit declaration of variables, run or compile the software in a mode that reports
undeclared or unknown variables. This may indicate the presence of a typographic error in the variable's name.
Phase: Requirements
The choice could be made to use a language that is not susceptible to these issues.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Mitigating technologies such as safe string libraries and container abstractions could be introduced.
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1180 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 02. Declarations and Initialization (DCL)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
else {
test\_string = "Done on the other side!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-457: Use of Uninitialized Variable (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/457.html 4/4Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Uninitialized variable
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Uninitialized V ariable
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardDCL33-PL Imprecise Declare identifiers before using them
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-436] mercy . "Exploiting Uninitialized Data". 2006-01.
.
[REF-437] Microsoft Security V ulnerability Research & Defense. "MS08-014 : The Case of the Uninitialized Stack V ariable
Vulnerability". 2008-03-11. < https://msrc.microsoft.com/blog/2008/03/ms08-014-the-case-of-the-uninitialized-stack-variable-
vulnerability/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 8: C++ Catastrophes."
Page 143. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "V ariable
Initialization", Page 312. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names