3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-246: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Sockets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/246.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-246: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Sockets
Weakness ID: 246
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The J2EE application directly uses sockets instead of using framework method calls.
 Extended Description
The J2EE standard permits the use of sockets only for the purpose of communication with legacy systems when no higher-level
protocol is available. Authoring your own communication protocol requires wrestling with dif ficult security issues.
Without significant scrutiny by a security expert, chances are good that a custom communication protocol will suf fer from security
problems. Many of the same issues apply to a custom implementation of a standard protocol. While there are usually more resources
available that address security concerns related to implementing a standard protocol, these resources are also available to attackers.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 695 Use of Low-Level Functionality
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example opens a socket to connect to a remote server .
A Socket object is created directly within the Java servlet, which is a dangerous way to manage remote connections.
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
// Perform servlet tasks.
...
// Open a socket to a remote server (bad).
Socket sock = null;
try {
sock = new Socket(remoteHostname, 3000);
// Do something with the socket.
...
} catch (Exception e) {
...
}
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-246: J2EE Bad Practices: Direct Use of Sockets (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/246.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
Use framework method calls instead of using sockets directly .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Bad Practices: Sockets
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
