3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-59: Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/59.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-59: Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
Weakness ID: 59
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product attempts to access a file based on the filename, but it does not properly prevent that filename from identifying a link or
shortcut that resolves to an unintended resource.
 Alternate T erms
insecure temporary file: Some people use the phrase "insecure temporary file" when referring to a link following weakness,
but other weaknesses can produce insecure temporary files without any symlink involvement at all.
Zip Slip: "Zip slip" is an attack that uses file archives (e.g., ZIP , tar, rar, etc.) that contain filenames with path
traversal sequences that cause the files to be written outside of the directory under which the archive
is expected to be extracted [ REF-1282 ]. It is most commonly used for relative path traversal ( CWE-
23) and link following ( CWE-59 ).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
ParentOf 61 UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following
ParentOf 62 UNIX Hard Link
ParentOf 64 Windows Shortcut Following (.LNK)
ParentOf 65 Windows Hard Link
ParentOf 1386 Insecure Operation on Windows Junction / Mount Point
CanFollow 73 External Control of File Name or Path
CanFollow 363 Race Condition Enabling Link Following
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Soft links are a UNIX term that is synonymous with simple shortcuts on Windows-based platforms.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Unix (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker may be able to traverse the file system to unintended locations and read or overwrite
the contents of unexpected files. If the files are used for a security mechanism then an attacker may
be able to bypass the mechanism.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-59: Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/59.html 2/4OtherTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Windows simple shortcuts, sometimes referred to as soft links, can be exploited remotely since a
".LNK" file can be uploaded like a normal file. This can enable remote execution.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1386 Some versions of Perl follow symbolic links when running with the -e option, which allows local users to
overwrite arbitrary files via a symlink attack.
CVE-2000-1178 Text editor follows symbolic links when creating a rescue copy during an abnormal exit, which allows
local users to overwrite the files of other users.
CVE-2004-0217 Antivirus update allows local users to create or append to arbitrary files via a symlink attack on a logfile.
CVE-2003-0517 Symlink attack allows local users to overwrite files.
CVE-2004-0689 Window manager does not properly handle when certain symbolic links point to "stale" locations, which
could allow local users to create or truncate arbitrary files.
CVE-2005-1879 Second-order symlink vulnerabilities
CVE-2005-1880 Second-order symlink vulnerabilities
CVE-2005-1916 Symlink in Python program
CVE-2000-0972 Setuid product allows file reading by replacing a file being edited with a symlink to the targeted file,
leaking the result in error messages when parsing fails.
CVE-2005-0824 Signal causes a dump that follows symlinks.
CVE-2001-1494 Hard link attack, file overwrite; interesting because program checks against soft links
CVE-2002-0793 Hard link and possibly symbolic link following vulnerabilities in embedded operating system allow local
users to overwrite arbitrary files.
CVE-2003-0578 Server creates hard links and unlinks files as root, which allows local users to gain privileges by
deleting and overwriting arbitrary files.
CVE-1999-0783 Operating system allows local users to conduct a denial of service by creating a hard link from a device
special file to a file on an NFS file system.
CVE-2004-1603 Web hosting manager follows hard links, which allows local users to read or modify arbitrary files.
CVE-2004-1901 Package listing system allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files via a hard link attack on the
lockfiles.
CVE-2005-1111 Hard link race condition
CVE-2000-0342 Mail client allows remote attackers to bypass the user warning for executable attachments such as
.exe, .com, and .bat by using a .lnk file that refers to the attachment, aka "Stealth Attachment."
CVE-2001-1042 FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files and directories by uploading a .lnk (link) file
that points to the target file.
CVE-2001-1043 FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files and directories by uploading a .lnk (link) file
that points to the target file.
CVE-2005-0587 Browser allows remote malicious web sites to overwrite arbitrary files by tricking the user into
downloading a .LNK (link) file twice, which overwrites the file that was referenced in the first .LNK file.
CVE-2001-1386 ".LNK." - .LNK with trailing dot
CVE-2003-1233 Rootkits can bypass file access restrictions to Windows kernel directories using
NtCreateSymbolicLinkObject function to create symbolic link
CVE-2002-0725 File system allows local attackers to hide file usage activities via a hard link to the target file, which
causes the link to be recorded in the audit trail instead of the target file.
CVE-2003-0844 Web server plugin allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files via a symlink attack on predictable
temporary filenames.
CVE-2015-3629 A Libcontainer used in Docker Engine allows local users to escape containerization and write to an
arbitrary file on the host system via a symlink attack in an image when respawning a container .
CVE-2021-21272 "Zip Slip" vulnerability in Go-based Open Container Initiative (OCI) registries product allows writing
arbitrary files outside intended directory via symbolic links or hard links in a gzipped tarball.
CVE-2020-27833 "Zip Slip" vulnerability in container management product allows writing arbitrary files outside intended
directory via a container image (.tar format) with filenames that are symbolic links that point to other
files within the same tar file; however , the files being pointed to can also be symbolic links to
destinations outside the intended directory , bypassing the initial check.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good
compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-59: Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/59.html 3/4
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
File Processing
 Affected Resources3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-59: Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/59.html 4/4File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 980 SFP Secondary Cluster: Link in Resource Name Resolution
MemberOf 1185 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. File Input and Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
Link following vulnerabilities are Multi-factor V ulnerabilities (MFV). They are the combination of multiple elements: file or directory
permissions, filename predictability , race conditions, and in some cases, a design limitation in which there is no mechanism for
performing atomic file creation operations.
Some potential factors are race conditions, permissions, and predictability .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Link Following
CER T C Secure Coding FIO02-C Canonicalize path names originating from untrusted
sources
CER T C Secure Coding POS01-C Check for the existence of links when dealing with files
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardFIO01-PL CWE More
SpecificDo not operate on files that can be modified by untrusted
users
Software Fault Patterns SFP18 Link in resource name resolution
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-132 Symlink Attack
CAPEC-17 Using Malicious Files
CAPEC-35 Leverage Executable Code in Non-Executable Files
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Symbolic Link
Attacks", Page 518. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1282] Snyk. "Zip Slip V ulnerability". 2018-06-05. < https://security .snyk.io/research/zip-slip-vulnerability >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
