3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-112: Missing XML Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/112.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-112: Missing XML Validation
Weakness ID: 112
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product accepts XML from an untrusted source but does not validate the XML against the proper schema.
 Extended Description
Most successful attacks begin with a violation of the programmer's assumptions. By accepting an XML document without validating it
against a DTD or XML schema, the programmer leaves a door open for attackers to provide unexpected, unreasonable, or malicious
input.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1286 Improper V alidation of Syntactic Correctness of Input
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code loads and parses an XML file.
The XML file is loaded without validating it against a known XML Schema or DTD.
Example 2
The following code creates a DocumentBuilder object to be used in building an XML document.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
// Read DOM
try {
...
DocumentBuilderFactory factory = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
factory.setValidating( false );
....
c\_dom = factory.newDocumentBuilder().parse( xmlFile );
} catch(Exception ex) {
...
}3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-112: Missing XML Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/112.html 2/3The DocumentBuilder object does not validate an XML document against a schema, making it possible to create an invalid XML
document.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Always validate XML input against a known XML Schema or DTD.
It is not possible for an XML parser to validate all aspects of a document's content because a parser cannot understand the
complete semantics of the data. However , a parser can do a complete and thorough job of checking the document's structure
and therefore guarantee to the code that processes the document that the content is well-formed.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Missing XML Validation
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-230 Serialized Data with Nested Payloads
CAPEC-231 Oversized Serialized Data Payloads
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
DocumentBuilderFactory builderFactory = DocumentBuilderFactory.newInstance();
builderFactory.setNamespaceAware(true);
DocumentBuilder builder = builderFactory.newDocumentBuilder();3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-112: Missing XML Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/112.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications