3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-248: Uncaught Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/248.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-248: Uncaught Exception
Weakness ID: 248
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
An exception is thrown from a function, but it is not caught.
 Extended Description
When an exception is not caught, it may cause the program to crash or expose sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 705 Incorrect Control Flow Scoping
ParentOf 600 Uncaught Exception in Servlet
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Read Application Data
An uncaught exception could cause the system to be placed in a state that could lead to a crash,
exposure of sensitive information or other unintended behaviors.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example attempts to resolve a hostname.
A DNS lookup failure will cause the Servlet to throw an exception.
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
protected void doPost (HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) throws IOException {
String ip = req.getRemoteAddr();
InetAddress addr = InetAddress.getByName(ip);
...
out.println("hello " + addr.getHostName());
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-248: Uncaught Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/248.html 2/3The \_alloca() function allocates memory on the stack. If an allocation request is too large for the available stack space, \_alloca()
throws an exception. If the exception is not caught, the program will crash, potentially enabling a denial of service attack. \_alloca() has
been deprecated as of Microsoft V isual Studio 2005(R). It has been replaced with the more secure \_alloca\_s().
Example 3
EnterCriticalSection() can raise an exception, potentially causing the program to crash. Under operating systems prior to Windows
2000, the EnterCriticalSection() function can raise an exception in low memory situations. If the exception is not caught, the program
will crash, potentially enabling a denial of service attack.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2023-41151 SDK for OPC Unified Architecture (OPC UA) server has uncaught exception when a socket is blocked
for writing but the server tries to send an error
CVE-2023-21087 Java code in a smartphone OS can encounter a "boot loop" due to an uncaught exception
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 227 7PK - API Abuse
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1141 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 07. Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Often Misused: Exception Handling
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR05-J Do not let checked exceptions escape from a finally block
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR06-J Do not throw undeclared checked exceptions
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP31-PL Exact Do not suppress or ignore exceptions
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-248: Uncaught Exception (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/248.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names