3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-86: Improper Neutralization of Invalid Characters in Identiﬁers in Web Pages (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/86.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-86: Improper Neutralization of Invalid Characters in Identifiers in W eb Pages
Weakness ID: 86
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes invalid characters or byte sequences in the middle of tag names, URI
schemes, and other identifiers.
 Extended Description
Some web browsers may remove these sequences, resulting in output that may have unintended control implications. For example,
the product may attempt to remove a "javascript:" URI scheme, but a "java%00script:" URI may bypass this check and still be
rendered as active javascript by some browsers, allowing XSS or other attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
ChildOf 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
PeerOf 184 Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0595 XSS filter doesn't filter null characters before looking for dangerous tags, which are ignored by web
browsers. Multiple Interpretation Error (MIE) and validate-before-cleanse.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
The problem of inconsistent output encodings often arises in web pages. If an encoding is not specified in an HTTP header , web
browsers often guess about which encoding is being used. This can open up the browser to subtle XSS attacks.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface ReductionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-86: Improper Neutralization of Invalid Characters in Identiﬁers in Web Pages (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/86.html 2/2To help mitigate XSS attacks against the user's session cookie, set the session cookie to be HttpOnly . In browsers that support
the HttpOnly feature (such as more recent versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox), this attribute can prevent the user's session
cookie from being accessible to malicious client-side scripts that use document.cookie. This is not a complete solution, since
HttpOnly is not supported by all browsers. More importantly , XMLHTTPRequest and other powerful browser technologies
provide read access to HTTP headers, including the Set-Cookie header in which the HttpOnly flag is set.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Invalid Characters in Identifiers
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-247 XSS Using Invalid Characters
CAPEC-73 User-Controlled Filename
CAPEC-85 AJAX Footprinting
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
