3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-665: Improper Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/665.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-665: Improper Initialization
Weakness ID: 665
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not initialize or incorrectly initializes a resource, which might leave the resource in an unexpected state when it is
accessed or used.
 Extended Description
This can have security implications when the associated resource is expected to have certain properties or values, such as a variable
that determines whether a user has been authenticated or not.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
ParentOf 455 Non-exit on Failed Initialization
ParentOf 770 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
ParentOf 908 Use of Uninitialized Resource
ParentOf 909 Missing Initialization of Resource
ParentOf 1279 Cryptographic Operations are run Before Supporting Units are Ready
ParentOf 1419 Incorrect Initialization of Resource
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThis weakness can occur in code paths that are not well-tested, such as rare error conditions. This is because
the use of uninitialized data would be noticed as a bug during frequently-used functionality .
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
When reusing a resource such as memory or a program variable, the original contents of that
resource may not be cleared before it is sent to an untrusted party .
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
If security-critical decisions rely on a variable having a "0" or equivalent value, and the programming
language performs this initialization on behalf of the programmer , then a bypass of security may
occur .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The uninitialized data may contain values that cause program flow to change in ways that the
programmer did not intend. For example, if an uninitialized variable is used as an array index in C,
then its previous contents may produce an index that is outside the range of the array , possibly
causing a crash or an exit in other environments.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
MediumAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-665: Improper Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/665.html 2/4
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Here, a boolean initiailized field is consulted to ensure that initialization tasks are only completed once. However , the field is
mistakenly set to true during static initialization, so the initialization code is never reached.
Example 2
The following code intends to limit certain operations to the administrator only .
If the application is unable to extract the state information - say , due to a database timeout - then the $uid variable will not be explicitly
set by the programmer . This will cause $uid to be regarded as equivalent to "0" in the conditional, allowing the original user to perform
administrator actions. Even if the attacker cannot directly influence the state data, unexpected errors could cause incorrect privileges
to be assigned to a user just by accident.
Example 3
The following code intends to concatenate a string to a variable and print the string.
This might seem innocent enough, but str was not initialized, so it contains random memory . As a result, str[0] might not contain the
null terminator , so the copy might start at an of fset other than 0. The consequences can vary , depending on the underlying memory .
If a null terminator is found before str[8], then some bytes of random garbage will be printed before the "hello world" string. The
memory might contain sensitive information from previous uses, such as a password (which might occur as a result of CWE-14 or
CWE-244 ). In this example, it might not be a big deal, but consider what could happen if large amounts of memory are printed out
before the null terminator is found.
If a null terminator isn't found before str[8], then a buf fer overflow could occur , since strcat will first look for the null terminator , then
copy 12 bytes starting with that location. Alternately , a buf fer over-read might occur ( CWE-126 ) if a null terminator isn't found before
the end of the memory segment is reached, leading to a segmentation fault and crash.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1471 chain: an invalid value prevents a library file from being included, skipping initialization of key variables,
leading to resultant eval injection.
CVE-2008-3637 Improper error checking in protection mechanism produces an uninitialized variable, allowing security
bypass and code execution.
CVE-2008-4197 Use of uninitialized memory may allow code execution.
CVE-2008-2934 Free of an uninitialized pointer leads to crash and possible code execution.
CVE-2007-3749 OS kernel does not reset a port when starting a setuid program, allowing local users to access the port
and gain privileges.
CVE-2008-0063 Product does not clear memory contents when generating an error message, leading to information
leak.
CVE-2008-0062 Lack of initialization triggers NULL pointer dereference or double-free.
CVE-2008-0081 Uninitialized variable leads to code execution in popular desktop application.
CVE-2008-3688 chain: Uninitialized variable leads to infinite loop.
CVE-2008-3475 chain: Improper initialization leads to memory corruption.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private boolean initialized = true;
public void someMethod() {
if (!initialized) {
// perform initialization tasks
...
initialized = true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$username = GetCurrentUser();
$state = GetStateData($username);
if (defined($state)) {
$uid = ExtractUserID($state);
}
# do stuff
if ($uid == 0) {
DoAdminThings();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char str[20];
strcat(str, "hello world");
printf("%s", str);3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-665: Improper Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/665.html 3/4CVE-2008-5021 Composite: race condition allows attacker to modify an object while it is still being initialized, causing
software to access uninitialized memory .
CVE-2005-1036 Chain: Bypass of access restrictions due to improper authorization ( CWE-862 ) of a user results from an
improperly initialized ( CWE-909 ) I/O permission bitmap
CVE-2008-3597 chain: game server can access player data structures before initialization has happened leading to
NULL dereference
CVE-2009-2692 chain: uninitialized function pointers can be dereferenced allowing code execution
CVE-2009-0949 chain: improper initialization of memory can lead to NULL dereference
CVE-2009-3620 chain: some unprivileged ioctls do not verify that a structure has been initialized before invocation,
leading to NULL dereference
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Strategy: Language Selection
Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid.
For example, in Java, if the programmer does not explicitly initialize a variable, then the code could produce a compile-time error
(if the variable is local) or automatically initialize the variable to the default value for the variable's type. In Perl, if explicit
initialization is not performed, then a default value of undef is assigned, which is interpreted as 0, false, or an equivalent value
depending on the context in which the variable is accessed.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify all variables and data stores that receive information from external sources, and apply input validation to make sure that
they are only initialized to expected values.
Phase: Implementation
Explicitly initialize all your variables and other data stores, either during declaration or just before the first usage.
Phase: Implementation
Pay close attention to complex conditionals that af fect initialization, since some conditions might not perform the initialization.
Phase: Implementation
Avoid race conditions ( CWE-362 ) during initialization routines.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Run or compile your product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Initialization problems may be detected with a stress-test by calling the software simultaneously from a large number of threads
or processes, and look for evidence of any unexpected behavior . The software's operation may slow down, but it should not
become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the program under
low memory conditions, run with insuf ficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable
connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior . If you trigger an
unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate
unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-665: Improper Initialization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/665.html 4/4Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 846 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 3 - Declarations and
Initialization (DCL)
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1135 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 01. Declarations and
Initialization (DCL)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar). It might have lower-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Incorrect initialization
CER T C Secure Coding ARR02-C Explicitly specify array bounds, even if implicitly defined by an initializer
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)DCL00-J Prevent class initialization cycles
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-436] mercy . "Exploiting Uninitialized Data". 2006-01.
.
[REF-437] Microsoft Security V ulnerability Research & Defense. "MS08-014 : The Case of the Uninitialized Stack V ariable
Vulnerability". 2008-03-11. < https://msrc.microsoft.com/blog/2008/03/ms08-014-the-case-of-the-uninitialized-stack-variable-
vulnerability/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "V ariable
Initialization", Page 312. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
