3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-64: Windows Shortcut Following (.LNK) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/64.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-64: W indows Shortcut Following (.LNK)
Weakness ID: 64
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, when opening a file or directory , does not suf ficiently handle when the file is a Windows shortcut (.LNK) whose target is
outside of the intended control sphere. This could allow an attacker to cause the product to operate on unauthorized files.
 Extended Description
The shortcut (file with the .lnk extension) can permit an attacker to read/write a file that they originally did not have permissions to
access.
 Alternate T erms
Windows symbolic link following
symlink
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-19793 network access control service executes program with high privileges and allows symlink to invoke
another executable or perform DLL injection.
CVE-2000-0342 Mail client allows remote attackers to bypass the user warning for executable attachments such as
.exe, .com, and .bat by using a .lnk file that refers to the attachment, aka "Stealth Attachment."
CVE-2001-1042 FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files and directories by uploading a .lnk (link) file
that points to the target file.
CVE-2001-1043 FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files and directories by uploading a .lnk (link) file
that points to the target file.
CVE-2005-0587 Browser allows remote malicious web sites to overwrite arbitrary files by tricking the user into
downloading a .LNK (link) file twice, which overwrites the file that was referenced in the first .LNK file.
CVE-2001-1386 ".LNK." - .LNK with trailing dot
CVE-2003-1233 Rootkits can bypass file access restrictions to Windows kernel directories using
NtCreateSymbolicLinkObject function to create symbolic link
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-64: Windows Shortcut Following (.LNK) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/64.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good
compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 980 SFP Secondary Cluster: Link in Resource Name Resolution
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied. Windows .LNK files are more "portable" than Unix symlinks and have been used in remote exploits. Some Windows
API's will access LNK's as if they are regular files, so one would expect that they would be reported more frequently .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Windows Shortcut Following (.LNK)
CER T C Secure Coding FIO05-C Identify files using multiple file attributes
Software Fault Patterns SFP18 Link in resource name resolution
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
