3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1315: Improper Setting of Bus Controlling Capability in Fabric End-point (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1315.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1315: Improper Setting of Bus Controlling Capability in Fabric End-point
Weakness ID: 1315
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The bus controller enables bits in the fabric end-point to allow responder devices to control transactions on the fabric.
 Extended Description
To support reusability , certain fabric interfaces and end points provide a configurable register bit that allows IP blocks connected to the
controller to access other peripherals connected to the fabric. This allows the end point to be used with devices that function as a
controller or responder . If this bit is set by default in hardware, or if firmware incorrectly sets it later , a device intended to be a
responder on a fabric is now capable of controlling transactions to other devices and might compromise system security .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
System Configuration
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A typical, phone platform consists of the main, compute core or CPU, a DRAM-memory chip, an audio codec, a baseband modem, a
power-management-integrated circuit ("PMIC"), a connectivity (WiFi and Bluetooth) modem, and several other analog/RF
components. The main CPU is the only component that can control transactions, and all the other components are responder-only
devices. All the components implement a PCIe end-point to interface with the rest of the platform. The responder devices should have
the bus-control-enable bit in the PCIe-end-point register set to 0 in hardware to prevent the devices from controlling transactions to
the CPU or other peripherals.
The audio-codec chip does not have the bus-controller-enable-register bit hardcoded to 0. There is no platform-firmware flow to verify
that the bus-controller-enable bit is set to 0 in all responders.
Audio codec can now master transactions to the CPU and other platform components. Potentially , it can modify assets in other
platform components to subvert system security .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1315: Improper Setting of Bus Controlling Capability in Fabric End-point (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1315.html 2/2Platform firmware includes a flow to check the configuration of bus-controller-enable bit in all responder devices. If this register bit is
set on any of the responders, platform firmware sets it to 0. Ideally , the default value of this register bit should be hardcoded to 0 in
RTL. It should also have access control to prevent untrusted entities from setting this bit to become bus controllers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
For responder devices, the register bit in the fabric end-point that enables the bus controlling capability must be set to 0 by
default. This bit should not be set during secure-boot flows. Also, writes to this register must be access-protected to prevent
malicious modifications to obtain bus-controlling capability .
Phase: Implementation
For responder devices, the register bit in the fabric end-point that enables the bus controlling capability must be set to 0 by
default. This bit should not be set during secure-boot flows. Also, writes to this register must be access-protected to prevent
malicious modifications to obtain bus-controlling capability .
Phase: System Configuration
For responder devices, the register bit in the fabric end-point that enables the bus controlling capability must be set to 0 by
default. This bit should not be set during secure-boot flows. Also, writes to this register must be access-protected to prevent
malicious modifications to obtain bus-controlling capability .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 References
[REF-1135] Benoit Morgan, Eric Alata, V incent Nicomette, Mohamed Kaaniche. "Bypassing IOMMU Protection against I/O
Attacks". 2016. < https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01419962/document >.
[REF-1136] Colin L. Rothwell. "Exploitation from malicious PCI Express peripherals". 2019.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-19
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
