Explaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to
Adversarial Malware Binaries
Luca Demetrio1, Battista Biggio2;3, Giovanni Lagorio1, Fabio Roli2;3, and
Alessandro Armando1
1CSecLab, University of Genova, Genova, Italy
luca.demetrio@dibris.unige.it,
fgiovanni.lagorio, alessandro.armando g@unige.it
2PRALab, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy
fbattista.biggio, fabio.roli g@diee.unica.it
3Pluribus One, Italy
Abstract. Recent work has shown that deep-learning algorithms for
malware detection are also susceptible to adversarial examples, i.e., carefully-
crafted perturbations to input malware that enable misleading classi-
cation. Although this has questioned their suitability for this task, it is
not yet clear why such algorithms are easily fooled also in this particu-
lar application domain. In this work, we take a rst step to tackle this
issue by leveraging explainable machine-learning algorithms developed
to interpret the black-box decisions of deep neural networks. In partic-
ular, we use an explainable technique known as feature attribution to
identify the most inuential input features contributing to each decision,
and adapt it to provide meaningful explanations to the classication of
malware binaries. In this case, we nd that a recently-proposed convo-
lutional neural network does not learn any meaningful characteristic for
malware detection from the data and text sections of executable les, but
rather tends to learn to discriminate between benign and malware sam-
ples based on the characteristics found in the le header. Based on this
nding, we propose a novel attack algorithm that generates adversarial
malware binaries by only changing few tens of bytes in the le header.
With respect to the other state-of-the-art attack algorithms, our attack
does not require injecting any padding bytes at the end of the le, and
it is much more ecient, as it requires manipulating much fewer bytes.
1 Introduction
Despite their impressive performance in many dierent tasks, deep-learning al-
gorithms have been shown to be easily fooled by adversarial examples , i.e.,
carefully-crafted perturbations of the input data that cause misclassications [1,2,3,4,5,6].
The application of deep learning to the cybersecurity domain does not constitute
an exception to that. Recent classiers proposed for malware detection, including
the case of PDF, Android and malware binaries, have been indeed shown to be
easily fooled by well-crafted adversarial manipulations [1,7,8,9,10,11]. DespitearXiv:1901.03583v2 [cs.CR] 24 Jan 2019L. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
the sheer number of new malware specimen unleashed on the Internet (more
than 8 millions in 2017 according to GData4) demands for the application of
eective automated techniques, the problem of adversarial examples has signif-
icantly questioned the suitability of deep-learning algorithms for these tasks.
Nevertheless, it is not yet clear why such algorithms are easily fooled also in the
particular application domain of malware detection.
In this work, we take a rst step towards understanding the behavior of
deep-learning algorithms for malware detection. To this end, we argue that
explainable machine-learning algorithms, originally developed to interpret the
black-box decisions of deep neural networks [12,13,14,15], can help unveiling the
main characteristics learned by such algorithms to discriminate between benign
and malicious les. In particular, we rely upon an explainable technique known
asfeature attribution [12] to identify the most inuential input features con-
tributing to each decision. We focus on a case study related to the detection
of Windows Portable Executable (PE) malware les, using a recently-proposed
convolutional neural network named MalConv [16]. This network is trained di-
rectly on the raw input bytes to discriminate between malicious and benign PE
les, reporting good classication accuracy. Recently, concurrent work [9,10] has
shown that it can be easily evaded by adding some carefully-optimized padding
bytes at the end of the le, i.e., by creating adversarial malware binaries . How-
ever, no explanation has been clearly given behind the surprising vulnerability
of this deep network. To address this problem, in this paper we adopt the afore-
mentioned feature-attribution technique to provide meaningful explanations of
the classication of malware binaries. Our underlying idea is to extend feature
attribution to aggregate information on the most relevant input features at a
higher semantic level, in order to highlight the most important instructions and
sections present in each classied le.
Our empirical ndings show that MalConv learns to discriminate between be-
nign and malware samples mostly based on the characteristics of the le header,
i.e., almost ignoring the data and text sections, which instead are the ones where
the malicious content is typically hidden. This means that also depending on the
training data, MalConv may learn a spurious correlation between the class labels
and the way the le headers are formed for malware and benign les.
To further demonstrate the risks associated to using deep learning \as is"
for malware classication, we propose a novel attack algorithm that generates
adversarial malware binaries by only changing few tens of bytes in the le header.
With respect to the other state-of-the-art attack algorithms in [9,10], our attack
does not require injecting any padding bytes at the end of the le (it modies
the value of some existing bytes in the header), and it is much more ecient, as
it requires manipulating much fewer bytes.
The structure of this paper is the following: in Section 2 we introduce how
to solve the problem of malware detection using machine learning techniques,
and we present the architecture of MalConv; (ii) we introduce the integrated
gradient technique as an algorithm that extracts which features contributes most
4https://www.gdatasoftware.com/blog/2018/03/30610-malware-number-2017Explaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
Embedding !=#(%)Byte values (0-255)
Padding bytes (set to 256)'(...')')\*(...'+Convolutional layer
Convolutional layerTemporal max poolingFully connectedÏƒ
,-...,.,.\*-...,/0%â‰¥0.5!âˆˆâ„7Ã—9malwarebenignTrueFalse
Fig. 1: Architecture of MalConv [16], adapted from [9].
for the classication problem; (iii) we collect the result of the method mentioned
above applied on MalConv, highlighting its weaknesses, and (iv) we show how
an adversary may exploit this information to craft an attack against MalConv.
2 Deep Learning for Malware Detection in Binary Files
Ra et al. [16] propose MalConv , a deep learning model which discriminates
programs based on their byte representation, without extracting any feature.
The intuition of this approach is based on spatial properties of binary programs:
(i) code, and data may be mixed, and it is dicult to extract proper features; ( ii)
there is correlation between dierent portions of the input program; ( iii) binaries
may have dierent length, as they are strings of bytes. Moreover, there is no clear
metrics that can be imposed on bytes: each value represents an instruction or a
piece of data, hence it is dicult to set a distance between them.
To tackle all of these issues, Ra et al. develop a deep neural network that
takes as input a whole program, whose architecture is represented in Fig. 1. First,
the input le size is bounded to d= 221bytes, i.e., 2 MB. Accordingly, the input
lexis padded with the value 256 if its size is smaller than 2 MB; otherwise,
it is cropped and only the rst 2 MB are analyzed. Notice that the padding
value does not correspond to any valid byte, to properly represent the absence
of information. The rst layer of the network is an embedding layer, dened
by a function :f0;1;:::; 256g!Rd8that maps each input byte to an 8-
dimensional vector in the embedded space. This representation is learned during
the training process and allows considering bytes as unordered categorical values.
The embedded sample Zis passed through two one-dimensional convolutional
layers and then shrunk by a temporal max-pooling layer, before being passed
through the nal fully-connected layer. The output f(x) is given by a softmax
function applied to the results of the dense layer, and classies the input xas
malware if f(x)0:5 (and as benign otherwise).
We debate the robustness of this approach, as it is not clear the rationale
behind what has been learned by MalConv. Moreover, we observe that the deep
neural network focuses on the wrong sequences of bytes of an input binary.L. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
3 Explaining Machine Learning
We address the problem mentioned at the end of Section 2 by introducing tech-
niques aimed to explain the decisions of machine-learning models. In particular,
we will focus on techniques that explain the local predictions of such models,
by highlighting the most inuential features that contribute to each decision. In
this respect, linear models are easy to interpret: they rank each feature with a
weight proportional to their relevance. Accordingly, it is trivial to understand
which feature caused the classier to assign a particular label to an input sam-
ple. Deep-learning algorithms provide highly non-linear decision functions, where
each feature may be correlated at some point with many others, making the in-
terpretation of the result nearly impossible and leading the developers to naively
trust their output. Explaining predictions of deep-learning algorithms is still an
open issue. Many researchers have proposed dierent techniques to explain what
a model learns and which features mostly contribute to its decisions. Among the
proposed explanation methods for machine learning, we decided to focus on a
technique called integrated gradients [12], developed by Sundararajan et al., for
two main reasons. First, it does not use any learning algorithm to explain the
result of another machine learning model; and, second, it is more ecient w.r.t.
the computations that are required by the other methods in the state-of-the-art.
Integrated gradients. We introduce the concept of attribution methods : algo-
rithms that compute the contribution of each feature for deciding which label
needs to be assigned to a single point. Contributions are calculated w.r.t. a
baseline . A baseline is a point in the input space that corresponds to a null
signal: for most image classiers it may be identied as a black image, it is an
empty sentence for text recognition algorithms, and so on. The baseline serves
as ground truth for the model: each perturbation to the baseline should increase
the contributions computed for the modied features. Hence, each contribution
is computed w.r.t. the output of the model on the baseline. The integrated gra-
dients technique is based on two axioms and upon the concept of baseline.
Axiom I: Sensitivity.
The rst axiom is called sensitivity : an attribution method satises sensitivity
if, for every input that dier in one feature from the baseline but they are
classied dierently, then the attribution of the diering feature should be non-
zero.
Moreover, if the learned function does not mathematically depend on a par-
ticular feature, the attribution should be zero. On the contrary, if sensitivity
is not satised, the model is focusing on irrelevant features, as the attribution
method fails to weight the contribution of each variable. Authors state that
gradients violate the sensitivity axioms, hence using them during the training
phase by applying back-propagation implies attributing wrong importance to
the wrong features.
Axiom II: Implementation Invariance. The second axiom is called imple-
mentation invariance , and it is built on top of the notion of functional equiv-
alence : two networks are functionally equivalent if their outputs are equal onExplaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
all inputs, despite being implemented in dierent ways. Thus, an attribution
method satises implementation invariance if it produces the same attributions
for two functionally equivalent networks. On the contrary, if this axiom is not
satised, the attribution method is sensitive to the presence of useless aspects
of the model. On top of these two axioms, Sundararajan et al. propose the
integrated gradient method that satises both sensitivity and implementation
invariance. Hence, this algorithm should highlight the properties of the input
model and successfully attributing the correct weights to the feature believed
relevant by the model itself.
Integrated Gradients. Given the input model f, a point xand baseline x0,
the attribution for the ithfeature is computed as follows:
IGi(x) = (xi x0
i)Z1
0@f(x0+(x x0))
@xid: (1)
This is the integral of the gradient computed on all points that lie on the line
passing through xandx0. Ifx0is a good baseline, each point in the line should
add a small contribution to the classication output. This method satises also
thecompleteness axiom: the attributions add up to the dierence between the
output of the model at the input xandx0. Hence, the features that are important
for the classication of xshould appear by moving on that line.
Since we can only compute discrete quantities, the integral can be approx-
imated using a summation, adding a new degree of freedom to the algorithm,
that is the number of points to use in the process: Sundararajan et al. state that
the number of steps could be chosen between 20 and 300, as they are enough to
approximate the integral within the 5% of accuracy.
4 What Does MalConv Learn?
We applied the integrated gradient technique for trying to grasp the intuition of
what is going on under the hood of MalConv deep network. For our experiments
we used a simplied version of MalConv, with an input dimension shrunk to 220
instead of 221, that is 1 MB instead of 2 MB, trained by Anderson et al. [17]
and publicly available on GitHub5. To properly comment the result generated
by the attribution method, we need to introduce the layout of the executables
that run inside Windows operating system.
Windows Portable Executable format. The Windows Portable Executable
format6(PE) describes the structure of a Windows executable. Each program
begins with the DOS header, which is left for retro-compatibility issues and for
telling the user that the program can not be run in DOS. The only two useful
information contained into the DOS header are the DOS magic number MZand
the value contained at oset 0x3c , that is an oset value that point to the
real PE header. If the rst one is modied, Windows throws an error and the
5https://github.com/endgameinc/ember/tree/master/malconv
6https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/debug/pe-formatL. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
program is not loaded, while if the second is perturbed, the operating system
can not nd the metadata of the program. The PE header consists of a Common
Object File Format (COFF) header, containing metadata that describe which
Windows Subsystem can run that le, and more. If the le is not a library, but
a standalone executable, it is provided with an Optional Header, which contains
information that are used by the loader for running the executable. As part of
the optional header, there are the section headers. The latter is composed by
one entry for each section in the program. Each entry contains meta-data used
by the operating system that describes how that particular section needs to be
loaded in memory. There are other components specied by the Windows PE
format, but for this work this information is enough to understand the output
of the integrated gradients algorithm applied to MalConv.
Integrated gradients applied to malware programs. The integrated gra-
dients technique works well with image and text les, but we need to evaluate
it on binary programs. First of all, we have to set a baseline: since the choice of
the latter is crucial for the method to return accurate results, we need to pick a
sample that satises the constraints7highlighted by the authors of the method:
(i) the baseline should be an empty signal with null response from the network;
(ii) the entropy of the baseline should be very low. If not, that point could be
an adversarial point for the network and not suitable for this method.
Hence, we have two possible choices: (i) the empty le, and (ii) a le lled
with zero bytes. For MalConv, an empty le is a vector lled by the special
padding number 256, as already mentioned in Section 2. While both these base-
lines satisfy the second constraint, only the empty le has a null response, as
the zero vector is seen as malware with the 20% of condence. Hence, the empty
le is more suitable for being considered the ground truth for the network. The
method returns a matrix that contains all the attributions, feature per feature,
V2Rd8, where the second dimension is produced by the embedding layer. We
compute the mean for each row of Vto obtain a signed scalar number for each
feature, resulting in a point v02Rdand it may be visualized in a plot. Figure 2
highlights the importance attributed by MalConv to the header of an input mal-
ware example using the empty le as baseline, marking with colours each byte's
contribution. We can safely state that a sample is malware if it is scored as such
by VirusTotal8which is an online service for scanning suspicious les. The cells
colored in red symbolize that MalConv considered them for deciding whether
the input sample is malware. On the contrary, cells with blue background are
the ones that MalConv retains representative of benign programs. Regarding our
analysis, we may notice that MalConv is giving importance to portions of the
input program that are not related to any malicious intent: some bytes in the
DOS header are colored both in red and blue, and a similar situation is found
for the other sections. Notably, the DOS header is not even read by modern
operating systems, as the only important values are the magic number and the
value contained at oset 0x3c , as said in the previous paragraph. All the other
7https://github.com/ankurtaly/Integrated-Gradients/blob/master/howto.md
8https://www.virustotal.comExplaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
Fig. 2: Attribution given by MalConv to the header of a malware sample.
bytes are repeated in every Windows executable, and they are not peculiar nei-
ther for goodware nor malware programs. We can thus say that this portion
of the program should not be relevant for discriminating benign from malicious
programs. Accordingly, one would expected MalConv to give no attribution to
these portions of bytes.
We can observe the attribution assigned by integrated gradients to every
byte of the program, aggregated for each component of the binary, in Figure 3.
Each entry of the histogram is the sum of all the contributions given by each
byte in that region. The histogram is normalized using the l1 norm of its compo-
nents. The color scheme is the same as the one described for Figure 2. MalConv
puts higher weights at the beginning of the le, and this fact has been already
formalized by Kolosnjaji et al. [9] in the discussion of the results of the attack
they have developed. It is clear that the .text section has a large impact on the
classication, as it is likely that the maliciousness of the input program lies in
that portion of the malware. However, the contribution given by the COFF and
optional headers outmatch the other sections. This further implies that the lo-
cations that are learned as important for classication are somewhat misleading.
We can state that among all the correlations that are present inside a program,
MalConv surely learned something that is not properly relevant for classication
of malware and benign programs. By knowing this fact, an adversary may per-
turb these portions of malware and sneaking behind MalConv without particular
eort: all she or he has to do is to compute the gradient of the model w.r.t. to
the input. Hence, we describe how a malicious user can deliver an attack by
perturbing bytes contained into an input binary to evade the classier.L. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
Fig. 3: Sum of contributions expressed in percentage.
5 Evading Malconv by Manipulating the File Header
We showed that MalConv bases its classications upon unreliable and spurious
features, as also indirectly shown by state-of-the-art attacks against the same
network, which inject bytes in specic regions of the malware sample without
even altering the embedded malicious code [9,10]. In fact, these attacks can not
alter the semantics of the malware sample, as it needs to evade the classier
while preserving its malicious functionality. Hence, not all the bytes in the input
binary can be modied, as it is easy to alter a single instruction and break the
behavior of the original program. As already mentioned in Section 1, the only
bytes that are allowed to be perturbed are those placed in unused zones of the
program, such as the space that is left by the compiler between sections, or at the
end of the sample. Even though these attacks have been proven to be eective,
we believe that it is not necessary to deploy such techniques as the network
under analysis is not learning what the developers could have guessed during
training and test phases. Recalling the results shown in Section 4, we believe
that, by perturbing only the bytes inside the DOS header, malware programs
can evade MalConv. There are two constraints: the MZmagic number and the
value at oset 0 x3ccan not be modied, as said in Section 4. Thus, we ag as
editable all the bytes inside the DOS header that are contained in that range.
Of course, one may also manipulate more bytes, but we just want to highlight
the severe weaknesses anticipated in Section 3.
Attack Algorithm. Our attack algorithm is given as Algorithm 1. It rst com-
putes the representation of each byte of the input le xin the embedded space,
asZ (x). The gradient Gof the classication function f(x) is then com-
puted w.r.t. the embedding layer. Note that we denote with gi;zi2R8theith
row of the aforementioned matrices. For each byte indexed in I, i.e., in the sub-
set of header bytes that can be manipulated, our algorithm follows the strategyExplaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
implemented by Kolosnjaji et al. [9]. This amounts to selecting the closest byte
in the embedded space which is expected to maximally increase the probability
of evasion. The algorithm stops either if evasion is achieved or if it reaches a
maximum number of allowed iterations. The latter is imposed since, depending
on which bytes are allowed to be modied, evasion is not guaranteed.
The result of the attack applied using an example can be appreciated in
Figure 4: the plot shows the probability of being recognized as malware, which
is the curve coloured in blue. Each iteration of the algorithm is visualized as black
vertical dashed lines, showing that we need to interpret the gradient dierent
times to produce an adversarial example. This is only one example of the success
of the attack formalized above, as we tested it on 60 dierent malware inputs,
taken from both The Zoo9and Das Malverik .10Experimental results conrm
our doubts: 52 malware programs over 60 evade MalConv by only perturbing
the DOS header. Note that a human expert would not be fooled by a similar
attack, as the DOS header can be easily stripped and replaced with a normal
one without perturbed bytes. Accordingly, MalConv should have learned that
these bytes are not relevant to the classication task.
Algorithm 1: Evasion algorithm
input : xinput binary, Iindexes of
bytes to perturb, fclassier,
Tmax iterations.
output: Perturbed code that should
achieve evasion against f.
t 0;
whilef(x)0:5^t
i(zb zi);
db kzb (zi+sbgi)k;
end
xi arg minj:sj>0dj;
end
t t+ 1;
end
Fig. 4: Evading MalConv by per-
turbing only few bytes in the DOS
header. The black dashed lines rep-
resent the iterations of the algo-
rithm. In each iteration, the algo-
rithm manipulates 58 header bytes
(excluding those that can not be
changed). The blue curve shows the
probability of the perturbed sample
being classied as malware across
the dierent iterations.
9https://github.com/ytisf/theZoo
10http://dasmalwerk.eu/L. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
6 Related Work
We discuss here some approaches that leverage deep learning for malware detec-
tion, which we believe may exhibit similar problems to those we have highlighted
forMalConv in this work. We continue with a brief overview of the already pro-
posed attacks that address vulnerabilities in the MalCon architecture. Then, we
discuss other explainable machine-learning techniques that may help us to gain
further insights on what such classiers eectively learn, and potentially whether
and to which extent we can make them more reliable, transparent and secure.
Deep Malware Classiers. Saxe and Berlin [18] use a deep learning system
trained on top of features extracted from Windows executables, such as byte en-
tropy histograms, imported functions, and meta-data harvested from the header
of the input executable. Hardy et al. [19] propose DL4MD, a deep neural network
for recognizing Windows malware programs. Each sample is characterized by its
API calls, hence they are passed to a stacked auto-encoders network. David et
al. [20] use a similar approach, by exploiting de-noising auto-encoders for classi-
fying Windows malware programs. The features used by the author are harvested
from dynamic analysis. Yhuan et al. [21] extract features from both static and
dynamic analysis of an Android application, like the requested permissions, API
calls, network usage, sent SMS and so on, and samples are given in input to
a deep neural network. McLaughlin et al. [22] propose a convolutional neural
network which takes as input the sequence of the opcodes of an input program.
Hence, they do not extract any features from data, but they merely extract the
sequence of instructions to feed to the model.
Evasion attacks against MalConv. Kolosnjaji et al. [9] propose an attack
that does not alter bytes that correspond to code, but they append bytes at the
end of the sample, preserving its semantics. The padding bytes are calculated
using the gradient of the cost function w.r.t. the input byte in a specic location
in the malware, achieving evasion with high probability. The technique is similar
to the one developed by Goodfellow et al. [3], the so-called Fast Sign Gradient
Method (FSGM). Similarly, Kreuk et al. [10] propose to append bytes at the
end of the malware and ll unused bytes between sections. Their algorithm is
dierent: they work in the embedding domain, and they translate back in byte
domain after applying the FSGM to the malware, while Kolosnjaji et al. modify
one padding byte at the time in the embedded domain, and then they translate
it back to the byte domain.
Explainable Machine Learning. Riberio et al. [13] propose a method called
LIME, which is an algorithm that tries to explain which features are important
w.r.t. the classication result. It takes as input a model, and it learns how it
behaves locally around an input point, by producing a set of articial samples.
The algorithm uses LASSO to select the top K features, where K is a free param-
eter. As it may be easily noticed, the dimension of the problem matters, and it
may become computational expensive on high dimensional data. Guo et al. [14]
propose LEMNA, which is an algorithm specialized on explaining deep learning
results for security applications. As said in Section 2, many malware detectorsExplaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
exploit machine learning techniques in their pipeline. Hence, being able to in-
terpret the results of the classication may be helpful to analysts for identifying
vulnerabilities. Guo et al. use a Fused LASSO or a mixture Regression Model
to learn the decision boundary around the input point and compute the attri-
bution forKfeatures, where Kis a free parameter. Another important work
that may help us explaining predictions (and misclassications) of deep-learning
algorithms for malware detection is that by Koh and Liang [15], which allows
identifying the most relevant training prototypes supporting classication of a
given test sample. With these technique, it may be possible to associate or com-
pare a given test sample to some known training malware samples and their
corresponding families (or, to some relevant benign le).
7 Conclusions and Future Work
We have shown that, despite the success of deep learning in many areas, there
are still uncertainties regarding the precision of the output of these techniques.
In particular, we use integrated gradients to explain the results achieved by
MalConv, highlight the fact that the deep neural network attributes wrong non-
zero weights to well known useless features, that in this case are locations inside
a Windows binary.
To further explain these weaknesses, we devise an algorithm inspired by re-
cent papers in adversarial machine learning, applied to the malware detection.
We show that perturbing few bytes is enough for evading MalConv with high
probability, as we applied this technique on a concrete set of samples taken from
the internet, achieving evasion on most of all the inputs.
Aware of this situation, we are willing to keep investigating the weaknesses
of these deep learning malware classiers, as they are becoming more and more
important in the cybersecurity world. In particular, we want to devise attacks
that can not be easily recognized by a human expert: the perturbations in the
DOS header are easy to detect, as mentioned in Section 5 and it may be patched
without substantial eort. Instead, we are studying how to hide these modi-
cations in an unrecognizable way, like lling bytes between functions: compilers
often leave space between one function and the other to align the function entry
point to multiple of 32 or 64, depending on the underlying architecture. The
latter is an example we are currently investigating. Hence, all classiers that
rely on raw byte features may be vulnerable to such attacks, and our research
may serve as a proposal for a preliminary penetration testing suite of attacks
that developers could use for establishing the security of these new technologies.
In conclusion, we want to emphasize that these intelligent technologies are far
from being considered secure, as they can be easily attacked by aware adversaries.
We hope that our study may focus the attention on this problem and increase
the awareness of developers and researchers about the vulnerability of these
models.L. Demetrio, B. Biggio, G. Lagorio, F. Roli and A. Armando
References
1. Battista Biggio, Igino Corona, Davide Maiorca, Blaine Nelson, Nedim Srndi c, Pavel
Laskov, Giorgio Giacinto, and Fabio Roli. Evasion attacks against machine learning
at test time. In Joint European conference on machine learning and knowledge
discovery in databases , pages 387{402. Springer, 2013.
2. Christian Szegedy, Wojciech Zaremba, Ilya Sutskever, Joan Bruna, Dumitru Erhan,
Ian Goodfellow, and Rob Fergus. Intriguing properties of neural networks. In
International Conference on Learning Representations , 2014.
3. Ian J Goodfellow, Jonathon Shlens, and Christian Szegedy. Explaining and har-
nessing adversarial examples (2014). arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6572 .
4. Nicolas Papernot, Patrick McDaniel, Somesh Jha, Matt Fredrikson, Z Berkay Celik,
and Ananthram Swami. The limitations of deep learning in adversarial settings.
InSecurity and Privacy (EuroS&P), 2016 IEEE European Symposium on , pages
372{387. IEEE, 2016.
5. Nicholas Carlini and David Wagner. Towards evaluating the robustness of neural
networks. In 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 39{57.
IEEE, 2017.
6. Battista Biggio and Fabio Roli. Wild patterns: Ten years after the rise of adversarial
machine learning. Pattern Recognition , 84:317{331, 2018.
7. Ambra Demontis, Marco Melis, Battista Biggio, Davide Maiorca, Daniel Arp, Kon-
rad Rieck, Igino Corona, Giorgio Giacinto, and Fabio Roli. Yes, machine learning
can be more secure! a case study on android malware detection. IEEE Trans.
Dependable and Secure Computing , In press.
8. Kathrin Grosse, Nicolas Papernot, Praveen Manoharan, Michael Backes, and
Patrick McDaniel. Adversarial perturbations against deep neural networks for
malware classication. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.04435 , 2016.
9. Bojan Kolosnjaji, Ambra Demontis, Battista Biggio, Davide Maiorca, Giorgio Gi-
acinto, Claudia Eckert, and Fabio Roli. Adversarial malware binaries: Evading deep
learning for malware detection in executables. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.04173 ,
2018.
10. Felix Kreuk, Assi Barak, Shir Aviv-Reuven, Moran Baruch, Benny Pinkas, and
Joseph Keshet. Adversarial examples on discrete sequences for beating whole-
binary malware detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.04528 , 2018.
11. Nedim Srndic and Pavel Laskov. Practical evasion of a learning-based classier:
A case study. In Proc. 2014 IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy , SP '14, pages
197{211, Washington, DC, USA, 2014. IEEE CS.
12. Mukund Sundararajan, Ankur Taly, and Qiqi Yan. Axiomatic attribution for deep
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.01365 , 2017.
13. Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. "why should I trust
you?": Explaining the predictions of any classier. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, San
Francisco, CA, USA, August 13-17, 2016 , pages 1135{1144, 2016.
14. Wenbo Guo, Dongliang Mu, Jun Xu, Purui Su, Gang Wang, and Xinyu Xing.
Lemna: Explaining deep learning based security applications. In Proceedings of
the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security ,
pages 364{379. ACM, 2018.
15. P. W. Koh and P. Liang. Understanding black-box predictions via inuence func-
tions. In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) , 2017.Explaining Vulnerabilities of Deep Learning to Adversarial Malware Binaries
16. Edward Ra, Jon Barker, Jared Sylvester, Robert Brandon, Bryan Catanzaro,
and Charles Nicholas. Malware detection by eating a whole exe. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1710.09435 , 2017.
17. H. S. Anderson and P. Roth. EMBER: An Open Dataset for Training Static PE
Malware Machine Learning Models. ArXiv e-prints , April 2018.
18. Joshua Saxe and Konstantin Berlin. Deep neural network based malware detection
using two dimensional binary program features. In Malicious and Unwanted Soft-
ware (MALWARE), 2015 10th International Conference on , pages 11{20. IEEE,
2015.
19. William Hardy, Lingwei Chen, Shifu Hou, Yanfang Ye, and Xin Li. Dl4md: A deep
learning framework for intelligent malware detection. In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference on Data Mining (DMIN) , page 61. The Steering Committee
of The World Congress in Computer Science, Computer Engineering and Applied
Computing (WorldComp), 2016.
20. Omid E David and Nathan S Netanyahu. Deepsign: Deep learning for automatic
malware signature generation and classication. In Neural Networks (IJCNN),
2015 International Joint Conference on , pages 1{8. IEEE, 2015.
21. Zhenlong Yuan, Yongqiang Lu, and Yibo Xue. Droiddetector: android malware
characterization and detection using deep learning. Tsinghua Science and Tech-
nology , 21(1):114{123, 2016.
22. Niall McLaughlin, Jesus Martinez del Rincon, BooJoong Kang, Suleiman Yerima,
Paul Miller, Sakir Sezer, Yeganeh Safaei, Erik Trickel, Ziming Zhao, Adam Doupe,
et al. Deep android malware detection. In Proceedings of the Seventh ACM on
Conference on Data and Application Security and Privacy , pages 301{308. ACM,
2017.