3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-385: Covert Timing Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/385.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-385: Covert T iming Channel
Weakness ID: 385
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Covert timing channels convey information by modulating some aspect of system behavior over time, so that the program receiving
the information can observe system behavior and infer protected information.
 Extended Description
In some instances, knowing when data is transmitted between parties can provide a malicious user with privileged information. Also,
externally monitoring the timing of operations can potentially reveal sensitive data. For example, a cryptographic operation can
expose its internal state if the time it takes to perform the operation varies, based on the state.
Covert channels are frequently classified as either storage or timing channels. Some examples of covert timing channels are the
system's paging rate, the time a certain transaction requires to execute, and the time it takes to gain access to a shared bus.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 514 Covert Channel
CanFollow 208 Observable Timing Discrepancy
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Other
Information exposure.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, the attacker observes how long an authentication takes when the user types in the correct password.
When the attacker tries their own values, they can first try strings of various length. When they find a string of the right length, the
computation will take a bit longer , because the for loop will run at least once. Additionally , with this code, the attacker can possibly
learn one character of the password at a time, because when they guess the first character right, the computation will take longer than
a wrong guesses. Such an attack can break even the most sophisticated password with a few hundred guesses.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def validate\_password(actual\_pw, typed\_pw):
if len(actual\_pw) <> len(typed\_pw):
return 03/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-385: Covert Timing Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/385.html 2/2Note that in this example, the actual password must be handled in constant time as far as the attacker is concerned, even if the actual
password is of an unusual length. This is one reason why it is good to use an algorithm that, among other things, stores a seeded
cryptographic one-way hash of the password, then compare the hashes, which will always be of the same length.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Whenever possible, specify implementation strategies that do not introduce time variances in operations.
Phase: Implementation
Often one can artificially manipulate the time which operations take or -- when operations occur -- can remove information from
the attacker .
Phase: Implementation
It is reasonable to add artificial or random delays so that the amount of CPU time consumed is independent of the action being
taken by the application.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 968 SFP Secondary Cluster: Covert Channel
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are working to improve CWE's coverage of transient execution weaknesses,
which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks that create or exploit covert channels. As a result of that work,
this entry might change in CWE 4.10.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Landwehr Timing
CLASP Covert Timing Channel
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-462 Cross-Domain Search Timing
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Landwehr
 Modifications
for i in len(actual\_pw):
if actual\_pw[i] <> typed\_pw[i]:
return 0
return 1