3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-564: SQL Injection: Hibernate (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/564.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-564: SQL Injection: Hibernate
Weakness ID: 564
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Using Hibernate to execute a dynamic SQL statement built with user-controlled input can allow an attacker to modify the statement's
meaning or to execute arbitrary SQL commands.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 89 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection')
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses in OW ASP Top Ten (2013)" (CWE-928)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code excerpt uses Hibernate's HQL syntax to build a dynamic query that's vulnerable to SQL injection.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
A non-SQL style database which is not subject to this flaw may be chosen.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Follow the principle of least privilege when creating user accounts to a SQL database. Users should only have the minimum
privileges necessary to use their account. If the requirements of the system indicate that a user can read and modify their own
data, then limit their privileges so they cannot read/write others' data.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
Implement SQL strings using prepared statements that bind variables. Prepared statements that do not bind variables can be
vulnerable to attack.
Phase: ImplementationAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String street = getStreetFromUser();
Query query = session.createQuery("from Address a where a.street='" + street + "'");3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-564: SQL Injection: Hibernate (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/564.html 2/2Use vigorous allowlist style checking on any user input that may be used in a SQL command. Rather than escape meta-
characters, it is safest to disallow them entirely . Reason: Later use of data that have been entered in the database may neglect
to escape meta-characters before use. Narrowly define the set of safe characters based on the expected value of the parameter
in the request.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1027 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-109 Object Relational Mapping Injection
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
