3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-770: Allocation of Resources W ithout Limits or Throttling
Weakness ID: 770
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allocates a reusable resource or group of resources on behalf of an actor without imposing any restrictions on the size or
number of resources that can be allocated, in violation of the intended security policy for that actor .
 Extended Description
Code frequently has to work with limited resources, so programmers must be careful to ensure that resources are not consumed too
quickly , or too easily . Without use of quotas, resource limits, or other protection mechanisms, it can be easy for an attacker to
consume many resources by rapidly making many requests, or causing larger resources to be used than is needed. When too many
resources are allocated, or if a single resource is too large, then it can prevent the code from working correctly , possibly leading to a
denial of service.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 665 Improper Initialization
ChildOf 400 Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
ParentOf 774 Allocation of File Descriptors or Handles Without Limits or Throttling
ParentOf 789 Memory Allocation with Excessive Size V alue
ParentOf 1325 Improperly Controlled Sequential Memory Allocation
CanFollow 20 Improper Input V alidation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
MemberOf 840 Business Logic Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
Operation
System Configuration
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Other)
When allocating resources without limits, an attacker could prevent other systems, applications, or
processes from accessing the same type of resource.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 2/7Example 1
This code allocates a socket and forks each time it receives a new connection.
The program does not track how many connections have been made, and it does not limit the number of connections. Because
forking is a relatively expensive operation, an attacker would be able to cause the system to run out of CPU, processes, or memory by
making a large number of connections. Alternatively , an attacker could consume all available connections, preventing others from
accessing the system remotely .
Example 2
In the following example a server socket connection is used to accept a request to store data on the local file system using a specified
filename. The method openSocketConnection establishes a server socket to accept requests from a client. When a client establishes
a connection to this service the getNextMessage method is first used to retrieve from the socket the name of the file to store the data,
the openFileT oWrite method will validate the filename and open a file to write to on the local file system. The getNextMessage is then
used within a while loop to continuously read data from the socket and output the data to the file until there is no longer any data from
the socket.
This example creates a situation where data can be dumped to a file on the local file system without any limits on the size of the file.
This could potentially exhaust file or disk resources and/or limit other clients' ability to access the service.
Example 3
In the following example, the processMessage method receives a two dimensional character array containing the message to be
processed. The two-dimensional character array contains the length of the message in the first character array and the message body
in the second character array . The getMessageLength method retrieves the integer value of the length from the first character array .
After validating that the message length is greater than zero, the body character array pointer points to the start of the second
character array of the two-dimensional character array and memory is allocated for the new body character array .(bad code) Example Language: C 
sock=socket(AF\_INET, SOCK\_STREAM, 0);
while (1) {
newsock=accept(sock, ...);
printf("A connection has been accepted\n");
pid = fork();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int writeDataFromSocketToFile(char \*host, int port)
{
char filename[FILENAME\_SIZE];
char buffer[BUFFER\_SIZE];
int socket = openSocketConnection(host, port);
if (socket < 0) {
printf("Unable to open socket connection");
return(FAIL);
}
if (getNextMessage(socket, filename, FILENAME\_SIZE) > 0) {
if (openFileToWrite(filename) > 0) {
while (getNextMessage(socket, buffer, BUFFER\_SIZE) > 0){
if (!(writeToFile(buffer) > 0))
break;
}
}
closeFile();
}
closeSocket(socket);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
/\* process message accepts a two-dimensional character array of the form [length][body] containing the message to be processed \*/
int processMessage(char \*\*message)
{
char \*body;
int length = getMessageLength(message[0]);
if (length > 0) {
body = &message[1][0];
processMessageBody(body);
return(SUCCESS);
}
else {
printf("Unable to process message; invalid message length");
return(FAIL);
}
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 3/7This example creates a situation where the length of the body character array can be very large and will consume excessive memory ,
exhausting system resources. This can be avoided by restricting the length of the second character array with a maximum length
check
Also, consider changing the type from 'int' to 'unsigned int', so that you are always guaranteed that the number is positive. This might
not be possible if the protocol specifically requires allowing negative values, or if you cannot control the return value from
getMessageLength(), but it could simplify the check to ensure the input is positive, and eliminate other errors such as signed-to-
unsigned conversion errors ( CWE-195 ) that may occur elsewhere in the code.
Example 4
In the following example, a server object creates a server socket and accepts client connections to the socket. For every client
connection to the socket a separate thread object is generated using the ClientSocketThread class that handles request made by the
client through the socket.
In this example there is no limit to the number of client connections and client threads that are created. Allowing an unlimited number
of client connections and threads could potentially overwhelm the system and system resources.
The server should limit the number of client connections and the client threads that are created. This can be easily done by creating a
thread pool object that limits the number of threads that are generated.
Example 5
An unnamed web site allowed a user to purchase tickets for an event. A menu option allowed the user to purchase up to 10 tickets,
but the back end did not restrict the actual number of tickets that could be purchased.
Example 5 References:
[REF-667] Rafal Los. "Real-Life Example of a 'Business Logic Defect' (Screen Shots!)". 2011. .}
(good code) Example Language: C 
unsigned int length = getMessageLength(message[0]);
if ((length > 0) && (length < MAX\_LENGTH)) {...}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void acceptConnections() {
try {
ServerSocket serverSocket = new ServerSocket(SERVER\_PORT);
int counter = 0;
boolean hasConnections = true;
while (hasConnections) {
Socket client = serverSocket.accept();
Thread t = new Thread(new ClientSocketThread(client));
t.setName(client.getInetAddress().getHostName() + ":" + counter++);
t.start();
}
serverSocket.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public static final int SERVER\_PORT = 4444;
public static final int MAX\_CONNECTIONS = 10;
...
public void acceptConnections() {
try {
ServerSocket serverSocket = new ServerSocket(SERVER\_PORT);
int counter = 0;
boolean hasConnections = true;
while (hasConnections) {
hasConnections = checkForMoreConnections();
Socket client = serverSocket.accept();
Thread t = new Thread(new ClientSocketThread(client));
t.setName(client.getInetAddress().getHostName() + ":" + counter++);
ExecutorService pool = Executors.newFixedThreadPool(MAX\_CONNECTIONS);
pool.execute(t);
}
serverSocket.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 4/7Example 6
Here the problem is that every time a connection is made, more memory is allocated. So if one just opened up more and more
connections, eventually the machine would run out of memory .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21668 Chain: Python library does not limit the resources used to process images that specify a very large
number of bands ( CWE-1284 ), leading to excessive memory consumption ( CWE-789 ) or an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ).
CVE-2009-4017 Language interpreter does not restrict the number of temporary files being created when handling a
MIME request with a large number of parts..
CVE-2009-2726 Driver does not use a maximum width when invoking sscanf style functions, causing stack
consumption.
CVE-2009-2540 Large integer value for a length property in an object causes a large amount of memory allocation.
CVE-2009-2054 Product allows exhaustion of file descriptors when processing a large number of TCP packets.
CVE-2008-5180 Communication product allows memory consumption with a large number of SIP requests, which cause
many sessions to be created.
CVE-2008-1700 Product allows attackers to cause a denial of service via a large number of directives, each of which
opens a separate window .
CVE-2005-4650 CMS does not restrict the number of searches that can occur simultaneously , leading to resource
exhaustion.
CVE-2020-15100 web application scanner attempts to read an excessively large file created by a user , causing process
termination
CVE-2020-7218 Go-based workload orchestrator does not limit resource usage with unauthenticated connections,
allowing a DoS by flooding the service
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Clearly specify the minimum and maximum expectations for capabilities, and dictate which behaviors are acceptable when
resource allocation reaches limits.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Limit the amount of resources that are accessible to unprivileged users. Set per-user limits for resources. Allow the system
administrator to define these limits. Be careful to avoid CWE-410 .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Design throttling mechanisms into the system architecture. The best protection is to limit the amount of resources that an
unauthorized user can cause to be expended. A strong authentication and access control model will help prevent such attacks
from occurring in the first place, and it will help the administrator to identify who is committing the abuse. The login application
should be protected against DoS attacks as much as possible. Limiting the database access, perhaps by caching result sets,
can help minimize the resources expended. To further limit the potential for a DoS attack, consider tracking the rate of requests
received from users and blocking requests that exceed a defined rate threshold.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."(bad code) Example Language: C 
bar connection() {
foo = malloc(1024);
return foo;
}
endConnection(bar foo) {
free(foo);
}
int main() {
while(1) {
foo=connection();
}
endConnection(foo)
}3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 5/7Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Note: This will only be applicable to cases where user input can influence the size or frequency of resource allocations.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Mitigation of resource exhaustion attacks requires that the target system either:
recognizes the attack and denies that user further access for a given amount of time, typically by using increasing time
delays
uniformly throttles all requests in order to make it more dif ficult to consume resources more quickly than they can again
be freed.
The first of these solutions is an issue in itself though, since it may allow attackers to prevent the use of the system by a
particular valid user . If the attacker impersonates the valid user , they may be able to prevent the user from accessing the server
in question.
The second solution can be dif ficult to ef fectively institute -- and even when properly done, it does not provide a full solution. It
simply requires more resources on the part of the attacker .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that protocols have specific limits of scale placed on them.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If the program must fail, ensure that it fails gracefully (fails closed). There may be a temptation to simply let the program fail
poorly in cases such as low memory conditions, but an attacker may be able to assert control before the software has fully
exited. Alternately , an uncontrolled failure could cause cascading problems with other downstream components; for example, the
program could send a signal to a downstream process so the process immediately knows that a problem has occurred and has
a better chance of recovery .
Ensure that all failures in resource allocation place the system into a safe posture.
Phases: Operation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Resource Limitation
Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system
resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many
resources are available. However , these functions are not available on all operating systems.
When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770 ), then limit the allocation of
further resources to privileged users; alternately , begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may
protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users.
Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable
(CWE-703 ).
 Detection Methods
Manual Static Analysis
Manual static analysis can be useful for finding this weakness, but it might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints. If denial-of-service is not considered a significant risk, or if there is strong emphasis on consequences such as code
execution, then manual analysis may not focus on this weakness at all.
Fuzzing
While fuzzing is typically geared toward finding low-level implementation bugs, it can inadvertently find uncontrolled resource
allocation problems. This can occur when the fuzzer generates a large number of test cases but does not restart the targeted
product in between test cases. If an individual test case produces a crash, but it does not do so reliably , then an inability to limit
resource allocation may be the cause.
When the allocation is directly af fected by numeric inputs, then fuzzing may produce indications of this weakness.
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Certain automated dynamic analysis techniques may be ef fective in producing side ef fects of uncontrolled resource allocation
problems, especially with resources such as processes, memory , and connections. The technique may involve generating a
large number of requests to the product within a short time frame. Manual analysis is likely required to interpret the results.
Automated Static Analysis
Specialized configuration or tuning may be required to train automated tools to recognize this weakness.3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 6/7Automated static analysis typically has limited utility in recognizing unlimited allocation problems, except for the missing release
of program-independent system resources such as files, sockets, and processes, or unchecked arguments to memory . For
system resources, automated static analysis may be able to detect circumstances in which resources are not released after they
have expired, or if too much of a resource is requested at once, as can occur with memory . Automated analysis of configuration
files may be able to detect settings that do not specify a maximum value.
Automated static analysis tools will not be appropriate for detecting exhaustion of custom resources, such as an intended
security policy in which a bulletin board user is only allowed to make a limited number of posts per day .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 802 2010 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 858 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 15 - Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 985 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Consumption
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1148 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 14. Serialization (SER)
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This entry is dif ferent from uncontrolled resource consumption ( CWE-400 ) in that there are other weaknesses that are related to
inability to control resource consumption, such as holding on to a resource too long after use, or not correctly keeping track of active
resources so that they can be managed and released when they are finished ( CWE-771 ).
Theoretical
Vulnerability theory is largely about how behaviors and resources interact. "Resource exhaustion" can be regarded as either a
consequence or an attack, depending on the perspective. This entry is an attempt to reflect one of the underlying weaknesses that
enable these attacks (or consequences) to take place.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO04-J Close resources when they are no longer needed
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)SER12-J Avoid memory and resource leaks during serialization
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC05-J Do not exhaust heap space
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.7
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.7
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-125 Flooding
CAPEC-130 Excessive Allocation
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/770.html 7/7CAPEC-147 XML Ping of the Death
CAPEC-197 Exponential Data Expansion
CAPEC-229 Serialized Data Parameter Blowup
CAPEC-230 Serialized Data with Nested Payloads
CAPEC-231 Oversized Serialized Data Payloads
CAPEC-469 HTTP DoS
CAPEC-482 TCP Flood
CAPEC-486 UDP Flood
CAPEC-487 ICMP Flood
CAPEC-488 HTTP Flood
CAPEC-489 SSL Flood
CAPEC-490 Amplification
CAPEC-491 Quadratic Data Expansion
CAPEC-493 SOAP Array Blowup
CAPEC-494 TCP Fragmentation
CAPEC-495 UDP Fragmentation
CAPEC-496 ICMP Fragmentation
CAPEC-528 XML Flood
 References
[REF-386] Joao Antunes, Nuno Ferreira Neves and Paulo V erissimo. "Detection and Prediction of Resource-Exhaustion
Vulnerabilities". Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). 2008-11.
.
[REF-387] D.J. Bernstein. "Resource exhaustion". < http://cr .yp.to/docs/resources.html >.
[REF-388] Pascal Meunier . "Resource exhaustion". Secure Programming Educational Material. 2004.
.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 17, "Protecting Against Denial of Service Attacks"
Page 517. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
[REF-667] Rafal Los. "Real-Life Example of a 'Business Logic Defect' (Screen Shots!)". 2011.
.
[REF-672] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 22 - Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling". SANS Software Security
Institute. 2010-03-23. < https://web.archive.org/web/20170113055136/https://software-security .sans.org/blog/2010/03/23/top-25-
series-rank-22-allocation-of-resources-without-limits-or-throttling/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 10, "Resource
Limits", Page 574. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-13
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications