3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-356: Product UI does not Warn User of Unsafe Actions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/356.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-356: Product UI does not W arn User of Unsafe Actions
Weakness ID: 356
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's user interface does not warn the user before undertaking an unsafe action on behalf of that user . This makes it easier
for attackers to trick users into inflicting damage to their system.
 Extended Description
Product systems should warn users that a potentially dangerous action may occur if the user proceeds. For example, if the user
downloads a file from an unknown source and attempts to execute the file on their machine, then the application's GUI can indicate
that the file is unsafe.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1055 Product does not warn user when document contains certain dangerous functions or macros.
CVE-1999-0794 Product does not warn user when document contains certain dangerous functions or macros.
CVE-2000-0277 Product does not warn user when document contains certain dangerous functions or macros.
CVE-2000-0517 Product does not warn user about a certificate if it has already been accepted for a dif ferent site.
Possibly resultant.
CVE-2005-0602 File extractor does not warn user if setuid/setgid files could be extracted. Overlaps
privileges/permissions.
CVE-2000-0342 E-mail client allows bypass of warning for dangerous attachments via a Windows .LNK file that refers to
the attachment.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 996 SFP Secondary Cluster: Security
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-356: Product UI does not Warn User of Unsafe Actions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/356.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Often resultant, e.g. in unhandled error conditions.
Relationship
Can overlap privilege errors, conceptually at least.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Product UI does not warn user of unsafe actions
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications