3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-39: Path Traversal: 'C:dirname' (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/39.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-39: Path T raversal: 'C:dirname'
Weakness ID: 39
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product accepts input that contains a drive letter or Windows volume letter ('C:dirname') that potentially redirects access to an
unintended location or arbitrary file.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 36 Absolute Path Traversal
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The attacker may be able to create or overwrite critical files that are used to execute code, such as
programs or libraries.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
The attacker may be able to overwrite or create critical files, such as programs, libraries, or important
data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass
that mechanism. For example, appending a new account at the end of a password file may allow an
attacker to bypass authentication.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
The attacker may be able read the contents of unexpected files and expose sensitive data. If the
targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that
mechanism. For example, by reading a password file, the attacker could conduct brute force
password guessing attacks in order to break into an account on the system.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The attacker may be able to overwrite, delete, or corrupt unexpected critical files such as programs,
libraries, or important data. This may prevent the software from working at all and in the case of a
protection mechanisms such as authentication, it has the potential to lockout every user of the
software.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-0038 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files by specifying the drive letter in the requested URL.
CVE-2001-0255 FTP server allows remote attackers to list arbitrary directories by using the "ls" command and including
the drive letter name (e.g. C:) in the requested pathname.
CVE-2001-0687 FTP server allows a remote attacker to retrieve privileged system information by specifying arbitrary
paths.
CVE-2001-0933 FTP server allows remote attackers to list the contents of arbitrary drives via a ls command that
includes the drive letter as an argument.
CVE-2002-0466 Server allows remote attackers to browse arbitrary directories via a full pathname in the arguments to
certain dynamic pages.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-39: Path Traversal: 'C:dirname' (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/39.html 2/3CVE-2002-1483 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via an HTTP request whose argument is a filename of the
form "C:" (Drive letter), "//absolute/path", or ".." .
CVE-2004-2488 FTP server read/access arbitrary files using "C:\" filenames
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
When validating filenames, use stringent allowlists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single "."
character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23 , and exclude directory separators such as "/" to avoid CWE-36 .
Use a list of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434 .
Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a denylist,
which may be incomplete ( CWE-184 ). For example, filtering "/" is insuf ficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of
"\" as a directory separator . Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous
data ( CWE-182 ). For example, if "../" sequences are removed from the ".../...//" string in a sequential fashion, two instances of
"../" would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the "../" string.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER 'C:dirname' or C: (Windows volume or 'drive letter')
CER T C Secure Coding FIO05-C Identify files using multiple file attributes
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-39: Path Traversal: 'C:dirname' (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/39.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names