3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-121: Stack-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/121.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-121: Stack-based Buffer Overflow
Weakness ID: 121
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A stack-based buf fer overflow condition is a condition where the buf fer being overwritten is allocated on the stack (i.e., is a local
variable or , rarely , a parameter to a function).
 Alternate T erms
Stack Overflow: "Stack Overflow" is often used to mean the same thing as stack-based buf fer overflow , however it is also used
on occasion to mean stack exhaustion, usually a result from an excessively recursive function call. Due to the
ambiguity of the term, use of stack overflow to describe either circumstance is discouraged.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
ChildOf 788 Access of Memory Location After End of Buf fer
 Background Details
There are generally several security-critical data on an execution stack that can lead to arbitrary code execution. The most prominent
is the stored return address, the memory address at which execution should continue once the current function is finished executing.
The attacker can overwrite this value with some memory address to which the attacker also has write access, into which they place
arbitrary code to be run with the full privileges of the vulnerable program. Alternately , the attacker can supply the address of an
important call, for instance the POSIX system() call, leaving arguments to the call on the stack. This is often called a return into libc
exploit, since the attacker generally forces the program to jump at return time into an interesting routine in the C standard library (libc).
Other important data commonly on the stack include the stack pointer and frame pointer , two values that indicate of fsets for
computing memory addresses. Modifying those values can often be leveraged into a "write-what-where" condition.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Memory)
Buffer overflows generally lead to crashes. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are possible,
including putting the program into an infinite loop.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism
Buffer overflows often can be used to execute arbitrary code, which is usually outside the scope of
a program's implicit security policy .
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
When the consequence is arbitrary code execution, this can often be used to subvert any other
security service.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-121: Stack-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/121.html 2/4
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
While buf fer overflow examples can be rather complex, it is possible to have very simple, yet still exploitable, stack-based buf fer
overflows:
The buf fer size is fixed, but there is no guarantee the string in argv[1] will not exceed this size and cause an overflow .
Example 2
This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
This function allocates a buf fer of 64 bytes to store the hostname, however there is no guarantee that the hostname will not be larger
than 64 bytes. If an attacker specifies an address which resolves to a very large hostname, then the function may overwrite sensitive
data or even relinquish control flow to the attacker .
Note that this example also contains an unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) that can lead to a NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-35395 Stack-based buf fer overflows in SFK for wifi chipset used for IoT/embedded devices, as exploited in the
wild per CISA KEV .
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use automatic buf fer overflow detection mechanisms that are of fered by certain compilers or compiler extensions. Examples
include: the Microsoft V isual Studio /GS flag, Fedora/Red Hat FOR TIFY\_SOURCE GCC flag, StackGuard, and ProPolice, which
provide various mechanisms including canary-based detection and range/index checking.
D3-SFCV (Stack Frame Canary V alidation) from D3FEND [ REF-1334 ] discusses canary-based detection in detail.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
This is not necessarily a complete solution, since these mechanisms only detect certain types of overflows. In addition, the result
is still a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. Not a complete solution.
Phase: Implementation
Implement and perform bounds checking on input.
Phase: Implementation
Do not use dangerous functions such as gets. Use safer , equivalent functions which check for boundary errors.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define BUFSIZE 256
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char buf[BUFSIZE];
strcpy(buf, argv[1]);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-121: Stack-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/121.html 3/4Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
Stack-based buf fer overflows can instantiate in return address overwrites, stack pointer overwrites or frame pointer overwrites. They
can also be considered function pointer overwrites, array indexer overwrites or write-what-where condition, etc.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Stack overflow
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C Imprecise Guarantee that library functions do not form invalid pointers
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C CWE More
SpecificGuarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
 References
[REF-1029] Aleph One. "Smashing The Stack For Fun And Profit". 1996-11-08. < http://phrack.org/issues/49/14.html >.
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-121: Stack-based Buﬀer Overﬂow (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/121.html 4/4[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Stack Overruns" Page 129. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Nonexecutable
Stack", Page 76. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Protection
Mechanisms", Page 189. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications