3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-619: Dangling Database Cursor ('Cursor Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/619.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-619: Dangling Database Cursor ('Cursor Injection')
Weakness ID: 619
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
If a database cursor is not closed properly , then it could become accessible to other users while retaining the same privileges that
were originally assigned, leaving the cursor "dangling."
 Extended Description
For example, an improper dangling cursor could arise from unhandled exceptions. The impact of the issue depends on the cursor's
role, but SQL injection attacks are commonly possible.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 402 Transmission of Private Resources into a New Sphere ('Resource Leak')
CanFollow 404 Improper Resource Shutdown or Release
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Background Details
A cursor is a feature in Oracle PL/SQL and other languages that provides a handle for executing and accessing the results of SQL
queries.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThis issue is currently reported for unhandled exceptions, but it is theoretically possible any time the
programmer does not close the cursor at the proper time.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
SQL (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Close cursors immediately after access to them is complete. Ensure that you close cursors if exceptions occur .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This could be primary when the programmer never attempts to close the cursor when finished with it.
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to CommandAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-619: Dangling Database Cursor ('Cursor Injection') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/619.html 2/2MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-505] David Litchfield. "The Oracle Hacker's Handbook".
[REF-506] David Litchfield. "Cursor Injection". < http://www .davidlitchfield.com/cursor-injection.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
