3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-224: Obscured Security-relevant Information by Alternate Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/224.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-224: Obscured Security-relevant Information by Alternate Name
Weakness ID: 224
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product records security-relevant information according to an alternate name of the af fected entity , instead of the canonical name.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1210 Audit / Logging Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code prints the contents of a file if a user has permission.
While the code logs a bad access attempt, it logs the user supplied name for the file, not the canonicalized file name. An attacker can
obscure their target by giving the script the name of a link to the file they are attempting to access. Also note this code contains a raceAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function readFile($filename){
$user = getCurrentUser();
$realFile = $filename;
//resolve file if its a symbolic link
if(is\_link($filename)){
$realFile = readlink($filename);
}
if(fileowner($realFile) == $user){
echo file\_get\_contents($realFile);
return;
}
else{
echo 'Access denied';
writeLog($user . ' attempted to access the file '. $filename . ' on '. date('r'));
}
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-224: Obscured Security-relevant Information by Alternate Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/224.html 2/2condition between the is\_link() and readlink() functions ( CWE-363 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0725 Attacker performs malicious actions on a hard link to a file, obscuring the real target file.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 997 SFP Secondary Cluster: Information Loss
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Obscured Security-relevant Information by Alternate Name
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
