3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1242: Inclusion of Undocumented Features or Chicken Bits (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1242.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1242: Inclusion of Undocumented Features or Chicken Bits
Weakness ID: 1242
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The device includes chicken bits or undocumented features that can create entry points for unauthorized actors.
 Extended Description
A common design practice is to use undocumented bits on a device that can be used to disable certain functional security features.
These bits are commonly referred to as "chicken bits". They can facilitate quick identification and isolation of faulty components,
features that negatively af fect performance, or features that do not provide the required controllability for debug and test. Another way
to achieve this is through implementation of undocumented features. An attacker might exploit these interfaces for unauthorized
access.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
Documentation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume
Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a device that comes with various security measures, such as secure boot. The secure-boot process performs firmware-
integrity verification at boot time, and this code is stored in a separate SPI-flash device. However , this code contains undocumented
"special access features" intended to be used only for performing failure analysis and intended to only be unlocked by the device
designer .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1242: Inclusion of Undocumented Features or Chicken Bits (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1242.html 2/3Remove all chicken bits and hidden features that are exposed to attackers. Add authorization schemes that rely on cryptographic
primitives to access any features that the manufacturer does not want to expose. Clearly document all interfaces.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
The implementation of chicken bits in a released product is highly discouraged. If implemented at all, ensure that they are
disabled in production devices. All interfaces to a device should be documented.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1371 ICS Supply Chain: Poorly Documented or Undocumented Features
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.12
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-212 Functionality Misuse
CAPEC-36 Using Unpublished Interfaces or Functionality
 References
[REF-1071] Ali Abbasi, Tobias Scharnowski and Thorsten Holz. "Doors of Durin: The V eiled Gate to Siemens S7 Silicon".
.
[REF-1072] Sergei Skorobogatov and Christopher W oods. "Breakthrough Silicon Scanning Discovers Backdoor in Military Chip".
.
[REF-1073] Chris Domas. "God Mode Unlocked: Hardware Backdoors in x86 CPUs". < https://i.blackhat.com/us-18/Thu-August-
9/us-18-Domas-God-Mode-Unlocked-Hardware-Backdoors-In-x86-CPUs.pdf >.
[REF-1074] Jonathan Brossard. "Hardware Backdooring is Practical". < https://media.blackhat.com/bh-us-
12/Briefings/Brossard/BH\_US\_12\_Brossard\_Backdoor\_Hacking\_Slides.pdf >.
[REF-1075] Sergei Skorabogatov . "Security , Reliability , and Backdoors". < https://www .cl.cam.ac.uk/~sps32/SG\_talk\_SRB.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-13
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT
SIG
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
Attackers dump the code from the device and then perform reverse engineering to analyze the code. The undocumented, special-access
features are identified, and attackers can activate them by sending specific commands via UART before secure-boot phase completes.
Using these hidden features, attackers can perform reads and writes to memory via the UART interface. At runtime, the attackers can also
execute arbitrary code and dump the entire memory contents.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1242: Inclusion of Undocumented Features or Chicken Bits (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1242.html 3/3
 Submissions
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications