3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1265: Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code Via Nested Calls (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1265.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1265: Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code V ia Nested
Calls
Weakness ID: 1265
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
During execution of non-reentrant code, the product performs a call that unintentionally produces a nested invocation of the non-
reentrant code.
 Extended Description
In a complex product, a single function call may lead to many dif ferent possible code paths, some of which may involve deeply nested
calls. It may be dif ficult to foresee all possible code paths that could emanate from a given function call. In some systems, an external
actor can manipulate inputs to the system and thereby achieve a wide range of possible control flows. This is frequently a concern in
products that execute scripts from untrusted sources. Examples of such products are web browsers and PDF readers. A weakness is
present when one of the possible code paths resulting from a function call alters program state that the original caller assumes to be
unchanged during the call.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 691 Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
PeerOf 663 Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context
CanPrecede 416 Use After Free
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 371 State Issues
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
Exploitation of this weakness can leave the application in an unexpected state and cause variables to be
reassigned before the first invocation has completed. This may eventually result in memory corruption or
unexpected code execution.Unknown
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The implementation of the Widget class in the following C++ code is an example of code that is not designed to be reentrant. If an
invocation of a method of Widget inadvertently produces a second nested invocation of a method of Widget, then data member
backgroundImage may unexpectedly change during execution of the outer call.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class Widget
{
private:
Image\* backgroundImage;
public:
void click()
{
if (backgroundImage)
{
backgroundImage->click();
}3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1265: Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code Via Nested Calls (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1265.html 2/3Looking closer at this example, Widget::click() calls backgroundImage->click(), which in turn calls scriptEngine->fireOnImageClick().
The code within fireOnImageClick() invokes the appropriate script handler routine as defined by the document being rendered. In this
scenario this script routine is supplied by an adversary and this malicious script makes a call to Widget::changeBackgroundImage(),
deleting the Image object pointed to by backgroundImage. When control returns to Image::click, the function's backgroundImage "this"
pointer (which is the former value of backgroundImage) is a dangling pointer . The root of this weakness is that while one operation on
Widget (click) is in the midst of executing, a second operation on the Widget object may be invoked (in this case, the second
invocation is a call to dif ferent method, namely changeBackgroundImage) that modifies the non-local variable.
Example 2
This is another example of C++ code that is not designed to be reentrant.
The expected order of operations is a call to Request::setup(), followed by a call to Request::send(). Request::send() calls
scriptEngine->coerceT oString(\_data) to coerce a script-provided parameter into a string. This operation may produce script execution.
For example, if the script language is ECMAScript, arbitrary script execution may result if \_data is an adversary-supplied ECMAScript
object having a custom toString method. If the adversary's script makes a new call to Request::setup, then when control returns to
Request::send, the field uri and the local variable credentials will no longer be consistent with one another . As a result, credentials for
one resource will be shared improperly with a dif ferent resource. The root of this weakness is that while one operation on Request
(send) is in the midst of executing, a second operation may be invoked (setup).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2014-1772 In this vulnerability , by registering a malicious onerror handler , an adversary can produce unexpected
re-entrance of a CDOMRange object. [ REF-1098 ]
CVE-2018-8174 This CVE covers several vulnerable scenarios enabled by abuse of the Class\_T erminate feature in
Microsoft VBScript. In one scenario, Class\_T erminate is used to produce an undesirable re-entrance of
ScriptingDictionary during execution of that object's destructor . In another scenario, a vulnerable
condition results from a recursive entrance of a property setter method. This recursive invocation
produces a second, spurious call to the Release method of a reference-counted object, causing a UAF
when that object is freed prematurely . This vulnerability pattern has been popularized as "Double Kill".
[REF-1099 ]
 Potential Mitigations}
}
void changeBackgroundImage(Image\* newImage)
{
if (backgroundImage)
{
delete backgroundImage;
}
backgroundImage = newImage;
}
}
class Image
{
public:
void click()
{
scriptEngine->fireOnImageClick();
/\* perform some operations using "this" pointer \*/
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
class Request
{
private:
std::string uri;
/\* ... \*/
public:
void setup(ScriptObject\* \_uri)
{
this->uri = scriptEngine->coerceToString(\_uri);
/\* ... \*/
}
void send(ScriptObject\* \_data)
{
Credentials credentials = GetCredentials(uri);
std::string data = scriptEngine->coerceToString(\_data);
doSend(uri, credentials, data);
}
}3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1265: Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code Via Nested Calls (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1265.html 3/3Phase: Architecture and Design
When architecting a system that will execute untrusted code in response to events, consider executing the untrusted event
handlers asynchronously (asynchronous message passing) as opposed to executing them synchronously at the time each event
fires. The untrusted code should execute at the start of the next iteration of the thread's message loop. In this way , calls into
non-reentrant code are strictly serialized, so that each operation completes fully before the next operation begins. Special
attention must be paid to all places where type coercion may result in script execution. Performing all needed coercions at the
very beginning of an operation can help reduce the chance of operations executing at unexpected junctures.
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Implementation
Make sure the code (e.g., function or class) in question is reentrant by not leveraging non-local data, not modifying its own code,
and not calling other non-reentrant code.
Effectiveness: High
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-74 Manipulating State
 References
[REF-1098] Jack Tang. "Root Cause Analysis of CVE-2014-1772 - An Internet Explorer Use After Free V ulnerability". 2014-11-05.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1099] Simon Zuckerbraun. "It's Time To Terminate The Terminator". 2018-05-15.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-12-20
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Simon Zuckerbraun Trend Micro
 Modifications
