3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1243: Sensitive Non-Volatile Information Not Protected During Debug (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1243.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1243: Sensitive Non-V olatile Information Not Protected During Debug
Weakness ID: 1243
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Access to security-sensitive information stored in fuses is not limited during debug.
 Extended Description
Several security-sensitive values are programmed into fuses to be used during early-boot flows or later at runtime. Examples of these
security-sensitive values include root keys, encryption keys, manufacturing-specific information, chip-manufacturer-specific
information, and original-equipment-manufacturer (OEM) data. After the chip is powered on, these values are sensed from fuses and
stored in temporary locations such as registers and local memories. These locations are typically access-control protected from
untrusted agents capable of accessing them. Even to trusted agents, only read-access is provided. However , these locations are not
blocked during debug operations, allowing a user to access this sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1263 Improper Physical Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Sensitive manufacturing data (such as die information) are stored in fuses. When the chip powers on, these values are read from the
fuses and stored in microarchitectural registers. These registers are only given read access to trusted software running on the core.
Untrusted software running on the core is not allowed to access these registers.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
All microarchitectural registers in this chip can be accessed through the debug interface. As a result, even an untrusted debugger can
access this data and retrieve sensitive manufacturing data.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1243: Sensitive Non-Volatile Information Not Protected During Debug (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1243.html 2/3Example 2
The example code below is taken from one of the AES cryptographic accelerators of the HACK@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton SoC
[REF-1366 ]. The operating system (OS) uses three AES keys to encrypt and decrypt sensitive data using this accelerator . These keys
are sensitive data stored in fuses. The security of the OS will be compromised if any of these AES keys are leaked. During system
bootup, these AES keys are sensed from fuses and stored in temporary hardware registers of the AES peripheral. Access to these
temporary registers is disconnected during the debug state to prevent them from leaking through debug access. In this example (see
the vulnerable code source), the registers key0, key1, and key2 are used to store the three AES keys (which are accessed through
key\_big0, key\_big1, and key\_big2 signals). The OS selects one of these three keys through the key\_big signal, which is used by the
AES engine.
The above code illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation for blocking AES key mechanism when the system is in debug
mode (i.e., when debug\_mode\_i is asserted). During debug mode, key accesses through key\_big0 and key\_big1 are ef fectively
disconnected, as their values are set to zero. However , the key accessed via the key\_big2 signal remains accessible, creating a
potential pathway for sensitive fuse data leakage, specifically AES key2, during debug mode. Furthermore, even though it is not
strictly necessary to disconnect the key\_big signal when entering debug mode (since disconnecting key\_big0, key\_big1, and key\_big2
will inherently disconnect key\_big), it is advisable, in line with the defense-in-depth strategy , to also sever the connection to key\_big.
This additional security measure adds an extra layer of protection and safeguards the AES keys against potential future modifications
to the key\_big logic.
To mitigate this, disconnect access through key\_big2 and key\_big during debug mode [ REF-1367 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Disable access to security-sensitive information stored in fuses directly and also reflected from temporary storage locations
when in debug mode.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
(good code) 
Registers used to store sensitive values read from fuses should be blocked during debug. These registers should be disconnected from
the debug interface.
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
assign key\_big0 = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : {key0[0],
key0[1], key0[2], key0[3], key0[4], key0[5]};
assign key\_big1 = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : {key1[0],
key1[1], key1[2], key1[3], key1[4], key1[5]};
assign key\_big2 = {key2[0], key2[1], key2[2],
key2[3], key2[4], key2[5]};
...
assign key\_big = key\_sel[1] ? key\_big2 : ( key\_sel[0] ?
key\_big1 : key\_big0 );
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
assign key\_big0 = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : {key0[0],
key0[1], key0[2], key0[3], key0[4], key0[5]};
assign key\_big1 = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : {key1[0],
key1[1], key1[2], key1[3], key1[4], key1[5]};
assign key\_big2 = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : {key2[0],
key2[1], key2[2], key2[3], key2[4], key2[5]};
...
assign key\_big = debug\_mode\_i ? 192'b0 : ( key\_sel[1] ?
key\_big2 : ( key\_sel[0] ? key\_big1 : key\_big0 ) );
...3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1243: Sensitive Non-Volatile Information Not Protected During Debug (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1243.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-116 Excavation
CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
 References
[REF-1366] "aes0\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/71103971e8204de6a61afc17d3653292517d32bf/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/aes0/aes0\_wrapper .s
v#L56C1-L57C1 >. URL validated: 2023-07-15 .
[REF-1367] "fix cwe\_1243 in aes0\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/cde1d9d6888bf fab21d4b405ccef61b19c58dd3c/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/aes0/aes0\_wrapper .sv
#L56 >. URL validated: 2023-09-28 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-21 Chen Chen, Rahul Kande, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names