3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1288: Improper Validation of Consistency within Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1288.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1288: Improper V alidation of Consistency within Input
Weakness ID: 1288
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives a complex input with multiple elements or fields that must be consistent with each other , but it does not validate
or incorrectly validates that the input is actually consistent.
 Extended Description
Some input data can be structured with multiple elements or fields that must be consistent with each other , e.g. a number-of-items
field that is followed by the expected number of elements. When such complex inputs are inconsistent, attackers could trigger
unexpected errors, cause incorrect actions to take place, or exploit latent vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 20 Improper Input V alidation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2018-16733 product does not validate that the start block appears before the end block
CVE-2006-3790 size field that is inconsistent with packet size leads to buf fer over-read
CVE-2008-4114 system crash with of fset value that is inconsistent with packet size
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1288: Improper Validation of Consistency within Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1288.html 2/2Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-24
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
