3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-915: Improperly Controlled Modiﬁcation of Dynamically-Determined Object Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/915.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-915: Improperly Controlled Modification of Dynamically-Determined Object
Attributes
Weakness ID: 915
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component that specifies multiple attributes, properties, or fields that are to be initialized
or updated in an object, but it does not properly control which attributes can be modified.
 Extended Description
If the object contains attributes that were only intended for internal use, then their unexpected modification could lead to a
vulnerability .
This weakness is sometimes known by the language-specific mechanisms that make it possible, such as mass assignment,
autobinding, or object injection.
 Alternate T erms
Mass Assignment: "Mass assignment" is the name of a feature in Ruby on Rails that allows simultaneous modification of
multiple object attributes.
AutoBinding: The "Autobinding" term is used in frameworks such as Spring MVC and ASP.NET MVC.
PHP Object Injection: Some PHP application researchers use this term for attacking unsafe use of the unserialize() function,
but it is also used for CWE-502 .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 913 Improper Control of Dynamically-Managed Code Resources
ParentOf 1321 Improperly Controlled Modification of Object Prototype Attributes ('Prototype Pollution')
PeerOf 502 Deserialization of Untrusted Data
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Ruby (Undetermined Prevalence)
ASP.NET (Undetermined Prevalence)
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
Python (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could modify sensitive data or program variables.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-915: Improperly Controlled Modiﬁcation of Dynamically-Determined Object Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/915.html 2/4Other
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This function sets object attributes based on a dot-separated path.
This function does not check if the attribute resolves to the object prototype. These codes can be used to add "isAdmin: true" to the
object prototype.
By using a denylist of dangerous attributes, this weakness can be eliminated.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2012-2054 Mass assignment allows modification of arbitrary attributes using modified URL.
CVE-2012-2055 Source version control product allows modification of trusted key using mass assignment.
CVE-2008-7310 Attackers can bypass payment step in e-commerce product.
CVE-2013-1465 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input allows attacker to modify application configuration.
CVE-2012-3527 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input in content management system might allow code
execution.
CVE-2012-0911 Use of PHP unserialize function on untrusted input in content management system allows code
execution using a crafted cookie value.
CVE-2012-0911 Content management system written in PHP allows unserialize of arbitrary objects, possibly allowing
code execution.
CVE-2011-4962 Content management system written in PHP allows code execution through page comments.
CVE-2009-4137 Use of PHP unserialize function on cookie value allows remote code execution or upload of arbitrary
files.
CVE-2007-5741 Content management system written in Python interprets untrusted data as pickles, allowing code
execution.
CVE-2011-2520 Python script allows local users to execute code via pickled data.
CVE-2005-2875 Python script allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code using pickled objects.
CVE-2013-0277 Ruby on Rails allows deserialization of untrusted YAML to execute arbitrary code.(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
function setValueByPath (object, path, value) {
const pathArray = path.split(".");
const attributeToSet = pathArray.pop();
let objectToModify = object;
for (const attr of pathArray) {
if (typeof objectToModify[attr] !== 'object') {
objectToModify[attr] = {};
}
objectToModify = objectToModify[attr];
}
objectToModify[attributeToSet] = value;
return object;
}
(bad code) Example Language: JavaScript 
setValueByPath({}, "\_\_proto\_\_.isAdmin", true)
setValueByPath({}, "constructor.prototype.isAdmin", true)
(good code) Example Language: JavaScript 
function setValueByPath (object, path, value) {
const pathArray = path.split(".");
const attributeToSet = pathArray.pop();
let objectToModify = object;
for (const attr of pathArray) {
// Ignore attributes which resolve to object prototype
if (attr === "\_\_proto\_\_" || attr === "constructor" || attr === "prototype") {
continue;
}
if (typeof objectToModify[attr] !== "object") {
objectToModify[attr] = {};
}
objectToModify = objectToModify[attr];
}
objectToModify[attributeToSet] = value;
return object;
}3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-915: Improperly Controlled Modiﬁcation of Dynamically-Determined Object Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/915.html 3/4CVE-2011-2894 Spring framework allows deserialization of objects from untrusted sources to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2012-1833 Grails allows binding of arbitrary parameters to modify arbitrary object properties.
CVE-2010-3258 Incorrect deserialization in web browser allows escaping the sandbox.
CVE-2008-1013 Media library allows deserialization of objects by untrusted Java applets, leading to arbitrary code
execution.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
If available, use features of the language or framework that allow specification of allowlists of attributes or fields that are allowed
to be modified. If possible, prefer allowlists over denylists.
For applications written with Ruby on Rails, use the attr\_accessible (allowlist) or attr\_protected (denylist) macros in each class
that may be used in mass assignment.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
If available, use the signing/sealing features of the programming language to assure that deserialized data has not been tainted.
For example, a hash-based message authentication code (HMAC) could be used to ensure that data has not been modified.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
For any externally-influenced input, check the input against an allowlist of internal object attributes or fields that are allowed to
be modified.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Refactoring
Refactor the code so that object attributes or fields do not need to be dynamically identified, and only expose getter/setter
functionality for the intended attributes.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The relationships between CWE-502 and CWE-915 need further exploration. CWE-915 is more narrowly scoped to object
modification, and is not necessarily used for deserialization.
 References
[REF-885] Stefan Esser . "Shocking News in PHP Exploitation". 2009. < https://owasp.org/www-pdf-archive/POC2009-
ShockingNewsInPHPExploitation.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-915: Improperly Controlled Modiﬁcation of Dynamically-Determined Object Attributes (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/915.html 4/4[REF-886] Dinis Cruz. ""T wo Security V ulnerabilities in the Spring Framework's MVC" pdf (from 2008)".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-887] Ryan Berg and Dinis Cruz. "T wo Security V ulnerabilities in the Spring Framework's MVC".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-888] ASPNETUE. "Best Practices for ASP.NET MVC". 2010-09-17.
.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-889] Michael Hartl. "Mass assignment in Rails applications". 2008-09-21.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-890] Tobi. "Secure your Rails apps!". 2012-03-06. < https://pragtob.wordpress.com/2012/03/06/secure-your-rails-apps/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-891] Heiko W ebers. "Ruby On Rails Security Guide". < https://guides.rubyonrails.org/security .html#mass-assignment >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-892] Josh Bush. "Mass Assignment V ulnerability in ASP.NET MVC". 2012-03-05.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-893] K. Scott Allen. "6 W ays To Avoid Mass Assignment in ASP.NET MVC". 2012-03-12.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-894] Egidio Romano. "PHP Object Injection". 2013-01-22. < https://owasp.org/www-
community/vulnerabilities/PHP\_Object\_Injection >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-464] Heine Deelstra. "Unserializing user-supplied data, a bad idea". 2010-08-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-466] Nadia Alramli. "Why Python Pickle is Insecure". 2009-09-09. < http://michael-rushanan.blogspot.com/2012/10/why-
python-pickle-is-insecure.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-01-26
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2013-01-26 Dan Amodio, Dave Wichers Aspect Security
Suggested adding mass assignment, provided references, and clarified relationship with AutoBinding.
 Modifications