3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-274: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/274.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-274: Improper Handling of Insufficient Privileges
Weakness ID: 274
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not handle or incorrectly handles when it has insuf ficient privileges to perform an operation, leading to resultant
weaknesses.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
PeerOf 271 Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors
CanAlsoBe 280 Improper Handling of Insuf ficient Permissions or Privileges
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Other; Alter Execution Logic
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1564 System limits are not properly enforced after privileges are dropped.
CVE-2005-3286 Firewall crashes when it can't read a critical memory block that was protected by a malicious process.
CVE-2005-1641 Does not give admin suf ficient privileges to overcome otherwise legitimate user actions.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-274: Improper Handling of Insuﬃcient Privileges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/274.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reasons: Potential Deprecation, CWE Overlap
Rationale:
This CWE entry could be deprecated in a future version of CWE.
Comments:
See maintenance notes.
 Notes
Relationship
Overlaps dropped privileges, insuf ficient permissions.
Theoretical
This has a layering relationship with Unchecked Error Condition and Unchecked Return V alue.
Theoretical
Within the context of vulnerability theory , privileges and permissions are two sides of the same coin. Privileges are associated with
actors, and permissions are associated with resources. To perform access control, at some point the product makes a decision
about whether the actor (and the privileges that have been assigned to that actor) is allowed to access the resource (based on the
permissions that have been specified for that resource).
Maintenance
CWE-280 and CWE-274 are too similar . It is likely that CWE-274 will be deprecated in the future.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Insuf ficient privileges
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
