3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-676: Use of Potentially Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/676.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-676: Use of Potentially Dangerous Function
Weakness ID: 676
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product invokes a potentially dangerous function that could introduce a vulnerability if it is used incorrectly , but the function can
also be used safely .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1177 Use of Prohibited Code
ParentOf 785 Use of Path Manipulation Function without Maximum-sized Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1228 API / Function Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Quality Degradation; Unexpected State
If the function is used incorrectly , then it could result in security problems.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to create a local copy of a buf fer to perform some manipulations to the data.
However , the programmer does not ensure that the size of the data pointed to by string will fit in the local buf fer and copies the data
with the potentially dangerous strcpy() function. This may result in a buf fer overflow condition if an attacker can influence the contents
of the string parameter .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-1470 Library has multiple buf fer overflows using sprintf() and strcpy()
CVE-2009-3849 Buffer overflow using strcat()About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void manipulate\_string(char \* string){
char buf[24];
strcpy(buf, string);
...
}3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-676: Use of Potentially Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/676.html 2/4CVE-2006-2114 Buffer overflow using strcpy()
CVE-2006-0963 Buffer overflow using strcpy()
CVE-2011-0712 Vulnerable use of strcpy() changed to use safer strlcpy()
CVE-2008-5005 Buffer overflow using strcpy()
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Build and Compilation; Implementation
Identify a list of prohibited API functions and prohibit developers from using these functions, providing safer alternatives. In some
cases, automatic code analysis tools or the compiler can be instructed to spot use of prohibited functions, such as the
"banned.h" include file from Microsoft's SDL. [ REF-554 ] [REF-7 ]
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode Quality Analysis
Binary / Bytecode simple extractor - strings, ELF readers, etc.
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Debugger
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-676: Use of Potentially Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/676.html 3/4Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Warning Flags
Source Code Quality Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Origin Analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 746 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 13 - Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 865 2011 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1165 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 10. Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 1167 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 12. Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 1169 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 14. Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 1170 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 48. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This weakness is dif ferent than CWE-242 (Use of Inherently Dangerous Function). CWE-242 covers functions with such significant
security problems that they can never be guaranteed to be safe. Some functions, if used properly , do not directly pose a security
risk, but can introduce a weakness if not called correctly . These are regarded as potentially dangerous. A well-known example is the
strcpy() function. When provided with a destination buf fer that is larger than its source, strcpy() will not overflow . However , it is so
often misused that some developers prohibit strcpy() entirely .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Dangerous Functions
CER T C Secure Coding CON33-C CWE More
AbstractAvoid race conditions when using library functions
CER T C Secure Coding ENV33-C CWE More
AbstractDo not call system()
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-676: Use of Potentially Dangerous Function (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/676.html 4/4CER T C Secure Coding ERR07-C Prefer functions that support error checking over equivalent
functions that don't
CER T C Secure Coding ERR34-C CWE More
AbstractDetect errors when converting a string to a number
CER T C Secure Coding FIO01-C Be careful using functions that use file names for identification
CER T C Secure Coding MSC30-C CWE More
AbstractDo not use the rand() function for generating pseudorandom
numbers
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C Imprecise Guarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-554] Michael Howard. "Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) Banned Function Calls". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/previous-versions/bb288454(v=msdn.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Safe String Handling" Page 156, 160. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "C String
Handling", Page 388. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications