3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1096: Singleton Class Instance Creation without Proper Locking or Synchronization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1096.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1096: Singleton Class Instance Creation without Proper Locking or
Synchronization
Weakness ID: 1096
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements a Singleton design pattern but does not use appropriate locking or other synchronization mechanism to
ensure that the singleton class is only instantiated once.
 Extended Description
This issue can prevent the product from running reliably , e.g. by making the instantiation process non-thread-safe and introducing
deadlock ( CWE-833 ) or livelock conditions. If the relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this reliability problem might
introduce a vulnerability .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 820 Missing Synchronization
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Reliability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-RLB-
12About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1096: Singleton Class Instance Creation without Proper Locking or Synchronization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1096.html 2/2
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-RLB-12. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications