3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-322: Key Exchange without Entity Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/322.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-322: Key Exchange without Entity Authentication
Weakness ID: 322
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a key exchange with an actor without verifying the identity of that actor .
 Extended Description
Performing a key exchange will preserve the integrity of the information sent between two entities, but this will not guarantee that the
entities are who they claim they are. This may enable an attacker to impersonate an actor by modifying traf fic between the two
entities. Typically , this involves a victim client that contacts a malicious server that is impersonating a trusted server . If the client skips
authentication or ignores an authentication failure, the malicious server may request authentication information from the user . The
malicious server can then use this authentication information to log in to the trusted server using the victim's credentials, snif f traffic
between the victim and trusted server , etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function
PeerOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
CanPrecede 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
MemberOf 320 Key Management Errors
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
No authentication takes place in this process, bypassing an assumed protection of encryption.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The encrypted communication between a user and a trusted host may be subject to snif fing by any
actor in the communication path.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Many systems have used Dif fie-Hellman key exchange without authenticating the entities exchanging keys, allowing attackers to
influence communications by redirecting or interfering with the communication path. Many people using SSL/TLS skip theAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-322: Key Exchange without Entity Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/322.html 2/2authentication (often unknowingly).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that proper authentication is included in the system design.
Phase: Implementation
Understand and properly implement all checks necessary to ensure the identity of entities involved in encrypted
communications.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 959 SFP Secondary Cluster: W eak Cryptography
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Key exchange without entity authentication
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Untrustworthy
Credentials", Page 37. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
