3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-831: Signal Handler Function Associated with Multiple Signals (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/831.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-831: Signal Handler Function Associated with Multiple Signals
Weakness ID: 831
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product defines a function that is used as a handler for more than one signal.
 Extended Description
While sometimes intentional and safe, when the same function is used to handle multiple signals, a race condition could occur if the
function uses any state outside of its local declaration, such as global variables or non-reentrant functions, or has any side ef fects.
An attacker could send one signal that invokes the handler function; in many OSes, this will typically prevent the same signal from
invoking the handler again, at least until the handler function has completed execution. However , the attacker could then send a
different signal that is associated with the same handler function. This could interrupt the original handler function while it is still
executing. If there is shared state, then the state could be corrupted. This can lead to a variety of potential consequences depending
on context, including denial of service and code execution.
Another rarely-explored possibility arises when the signal handler is only designed to be executed once (if at all). By sending multiple
signals, an attacker could invoke the function more than once. This may generate extra, unintended side ef fects. A race condition
might not even be necessary; the attacker could send one signal, wait until it is handled, then send the other signal.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Integrity
Confidentiality
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Application Data; Gain
Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Varies by Context
The most common consequence will be a corruption of the state of the product, possibly leading to
a crash or exit. However , if the signal handler is operating on state variables for security relevant
libraries or protection mechanisms, the consequences can be far more severe, including protection
mechanism bypass, privilege escalation, or information exposure.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code registers the same signal handler function with two dif ferent signals.
Example 2
This code registers the same signal handler function with two dif ferent signals ( CWE-831 ). If those signals are sent to the process, the
handler creates a log message (specified in the first argument to the program) and exits.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void handler (int sigNum) {
...
}
int main (int argc, char\* argv[]) {
signal(SIGUSR1, handler)
signal(SIGUSR2, handler)
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*logMessage;
void handler (int sigNum) {
syslog(LOG\_NOTICE, "%s\n", logMessage);
free(logMessage);
/\*tifiilli thi fthtii id t kd tti fthi k i\*/3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-831: Signal Handler Function Associated with Multiple Signals (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/831.html 2/2The handler function uses global state (globalV ar and logMessage), and it can be called by both the SIGHUP and SIGTERM signals.
An attack scenario might follow these lines:
The program begins execution, initializes logMessage, and registers the signal handlers for SIGHUP and SIGTERM.
The program begins its "normal" functionality , which is simplified as sleep(), but could be any functionality that consumes
some time.
The attacker sends SIGHUP , which invokes handler (call this "SIGHUP-handler").
SIGHUP-handler begins to execute, calling syslog().
syslog() calls malloc(), which is non-reentrant. malloc() begins to modify metadata to manage the heap.
The attacker then sends SIGTERM.
SIGHUP-handler is interrupted, but syslog's malloc call is still executing and has not finished modifying its metadata.
The SIGTERM handler is invoked.
SIGTERM-handler records the log message using syslog(), then frees the logMessage variable.
At this point, the state of the heap is uncertain, because malloc is still modifying the metadata for the heap; the metadata might be in
an inconsistent state. The SIGTERM-handler call to free() is assuming that the metadata is inconsistent, possibly causing it to write
data to the wrong location while managing the heap. The result is memory corruption, which could lead to a crash or even code
execution, depending on the circumstances under which the code is running.
Note that this is an adaptation of a classic example as originally presented by Michal Zalewski [ REF-360 ]; the original example was
shown to be exploitable for code execution.
Also note that the strdup(argv[1]) call contains a potential buf fer over-read ( CWE-126 ) if the program is called without any arguments,
because argc would be 0, and argv[1] would point outside the bounds of the array .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-360] Michal Zalewski. "Delivering Signals for Fun and Profit". < https://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/signals.txt >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
[REF-361] "Race Condition: Signal Handling". < https://vulncat.fortify .com/en/detail?
id=desc.structural.cpp.race\_condition\_signal\_handling#:~:text=Signal%20handling%20race%20conditions%20can,installed%20to
%20handle%20multiple%20signals.s >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-12-12
(CWE 1.11, 2010-12-13)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
/\* artificially increase the size of the timing window to make demonstration of this weakness easier. \*/
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
int main (int argc, char\* argv[]) {
logMessage = strdup(argv[1]);
/\* Register signal handlers. \*/
signal(SIGHUP, handler);
signal(SIGTERM, handler);
/\* artificially increase the size of the timing window to make demonstration of this weakness easier. \*/
sleep(10);
}