3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1007: Insuﬃcient Visual Distinction of Homoglyphs Presented to User (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1007.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1007: Insufficient V isual Distinction of Homoglyphs Presented to User
Weakness ID: 1007
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product displays information or identifiers to a user , but the display mechanism does not make it easy for the user to distinguish
between visually similar or identical glyphs (homoglyphs), which may cause the user to misinterpret a glyph and perform an
unintended, insecure action.
 Extended Description
Some glyphs, pictures, or icons can be semantically distinct to a program, while appearing very similar or identical to a human user .
These are referred to as homoglyphs. For example, the lowercase "l" (ell) and uppercase "I" (eye) have dif ferent character codes, but
these characters can be displayed in exactly the same way to a user , depending on the font. This can also occur between dif ferent
character sets. For example, the Latin capital letter "A" and the Greek capital letter "Α" (Alpha) are treated as distinct by programs, but
may be displayed in exactly the same way to a user . Accent marks may also cause letters to appear very similar , such as the Latin
capital letter grave mark "À" and its equivalent "Á" with the acute accent.
Adversaries can exploit this visual similarity for attacks such as phishing, e.g. by providing a link to an attacker-controlled hostname
that looks like a hostname that the victim trusts. In a dif ferent use of homoglyphs, an adversary may create a back door username that
is visually similar to the username of a regular user , which then makes it more dif ficult for a system administrator to detect the
malicious username while reviewing logs.
 Alternate T erms
Homograph Attack: "Homograph" is often used as a synonym of "homoglyph" by researchers, but according to Wikipedia, a
homograph is a word that has multiple, distinct meanings.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 451 User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness may occur when characters from various character sets are allowed to be interchanged
within a URL, username, email address, etc. without any notification to the user or underlying system
being used.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Other
An attacker may ultimately redirect a user to a malicious website, by deceiving the user into believing
the URL they are accessing is a trusted domain. However , the attack can also be used to forge log
entries by using homoglyphs in usernames. Homoglyph manipulations are often the first step
towards executing advanced attacks such as stealing a user's credentials, Cross-Site Scripting
(XSS), or log forgery . If an attacker redirects a user to a malicious site, the attacker can mimic aAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1007: Insuﬃcient Visual Distinction of Homoglyphs Presented to User (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1007.html 2/3trusted domain to steal account credentials and perform actions on behalf of the user , without the
user's knowledge. Similarly , an attacker could create a username for a website that contains
homoglyph characters, making it dif ficult for an admin to review logs and determine which users
performed which actions.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following looks like a simple, trusted URL that a user may frequently access.
However , the URL above is comprised of Cyrillic characters that look identical to the expected ASCII characters. This results in most
users not being able to distinguish between the two and assuming that the above URL is trusted and safe. The "e" is actually the
"CYRILLIC SMALL LETTER IE" which is represented in HTML as the character е, while the "a" is actually the "CYRILLIC
SMALL LETTER A" which is represented in HTML as the character а. The "p", "c", and "o" are also Cyrillic characters in this
example. V iewing the source reveals a URL of "http://www .еxаmрlе.соm". An adversary
can utilize this approach to perform an attack such as a phishing attack in order to drive traf fic to a malicious website.
Example 2
The following displays an example of how creating usernames containing homoglyphs can lead to log forgery .
Assume an adversary visits a legitimate, trusted domain and creates an account named "admin", except the 'a' and 'i' characters are
Cyrillic characters instead of the expected ASCII. Any actions the adversary performs will be saved to the log file and look like they
came from a legitimate administrator account.
Upon closer inspection, the account that generated three of these log entries is "аdmіn". Only the third log entry is by
the legitimate admin account. This makes it more dif ficult to determine which actions were performed by the adversary and which
actions were executed by the legitimate "admin" account.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2013-7236 web forum allows impersonation of users with homoglyphs in account names
CVE-2012-0584 Improper character restriction in URLs in web browser
CVE-2009-0652 Incomplete denylist does not include homoglyphs of "/" and "?" characters in URLs
CVE-2017-5015 web browser does not convert hyphens to punycode, allowing IDN spoofing in URLs
CVE-2005-0233 homoglyph spoofing using punycode in URLs and certificates
CVE-2005-0234 homoglyph spoofing using punycode in URLs and certificates
CVE-2005-0235 homoglyph spoofing using punycode in URLs and certificates
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use a browser that displays Punycode for IDNs in the URL and status bars, or which color code various scripts in URLs.
Due to the prominence of homoglyph attacks, several browsers now help safeguard against this attack via the use of Punycode.
For example, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome will display IDNs as Punycode if top-level domains do not restrict which
characters can be used in domain names or if labels mix scripts for dif ferent languages.
Phase: Implementation
Use an email client that has strict filters and prevents messages that mix character sets to end up in a user's inbox.
Certain email clients such as Google's GMail prevent the use of non-Latin characters in email addresses or in links contained
within emails. This helps prevent homoglyph attacks by flagging these emails and redirecting them to a user's spam folder .
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Dynamic Analysis(attack code) 
http://www.еxаmрlе.соm
(result) 
123.123.123.123 аdmіn [17/Jul/2017:09:05:49 -0400] "GET /example/users/userlist HTTP/1.1" 401 12846
123.123.123.123 аdmіn [17/Jul/2017:09:06:51 -0400] "GET /example/users/userlist HTTP/1.1" 200 4523
123.123.123.123 admin [17/Jul/2017:09:10:02 -0400] "GET /example/users/editusers HTTP/1.1" 200 6291
123.123.123.123 аdmіn [17/Jul/2017:09:10:02 -0400] "GET /example/users/editusers HTTP/1.1" 200 62913/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1007: Insuﬃcient Visual Distinction of Homoglyphs Presented to User (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1007.html 3/3If utilizing user accounts, attempt to submit a username that contains homoglyphs. Similarly , check to see if links containing
homoglyphs can be sent via email, web browsers, or other mechanisms.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-632 Homograph Attack via Homoglyphs
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 11, "Canonical Representation Issues", Page 382.
2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-8] Gregory Baatard and Peter Hannay . "The 2011 IDN Homograph Attack Mitigation Survey". ECU Publications. 2012.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2017-07-24
(CWE 2.12, 2017-11-08)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
