3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-645: Overly Restrictive Account Lockout Mechanism (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/645.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-645: Overly Restrictive Account Lockout Mechanism
Weakness ID: 645
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains an account lockout protection mechanism, but the mechanism is too restrictive and can be triggered too easily ,
which allows attackers to deny service to legitimate users by causing their accounts to be locked out.
 Extended Description
Account lockout is a security feature often present in applications as a countermeasure to the brute force attack on the password
based authentication mechanism of the system. After a certain number of failed login attempts, the users' account may be disabled for
a certain period of time or until it is unlocked by an administrator . Other security events may also possibly trigger account lockout.
However , an attacker may use this very security feature to deny service to legitimate system users. It is therefore important to ensure
that the account lockout security mechanism is not overly restrictive.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 287 Improper Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
MemberOf 1216 Lockout Mechanism Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
Users could be locked out of accounts.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A famous example of this type of weakness being exploited is the eBay attack. eBay always displays the user id of the highest bidder .
In the final minutes of the auction, one of the bidders could try to log in as the highest bidder three times. After three incorrect log in
attempts, eBay password throttling would kick in and lock out the highest bidder's account for some time. An attacker could then make
their own bid and their victim would not have a chance to place the counter bid because they would be locked out. Thus an attacker
could win the auction.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Implement more intelligent password throttling mechanisms such as those which take IP address into account, in addition to the
login name.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-645: Overly Restrictive Account Lockout Mechanism (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/645.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
Implement a lockout timeout that grows as the number of incorrect login attempts goes up, eventually resulting in a complete
lockout.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider alternatives to account lockout that would still be ef fective against password brute force attacks, such as presenting
the user machine with a puzzle to solve (makes it do some computation).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 951 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Authentication Policy
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-2 Inducing Account Lockout
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
