3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-524: Use of Cache Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/524.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-524: Use of Cache Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 524
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses a cache that contains sensitive information, but the cache can be read by an actor outside of the intended control
sphere.
 Extended Description
Applications may use caches to improve ef ficiency when communicating with remote entities or performing intensive calculations. A
cache maintains a pool of objects, threads, connections, pages, financial data, passwords, or other resources to minimize the time it
takes to initialize and access these resources. If the cache is accessible to unauthorized actors, attackers can read the cache and
obtain this sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ParentOf 525 Use of W eb Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Protect information stored in cache.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not store unnecessarily sensitive information in the cache.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider using encryption in the cache.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-524: Use of Cache Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/524.html 2/2MemberOf 965 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Session Management
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-204 Lifting Sensitive Data Embedded in Cache
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
