3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-667: Improper Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/667.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-667: Improper Locking
Weakness ID: 667
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly acquire or release a lock on a resource, leading to unexpected resource state changes and behaviors.
 Extended Description
Locking is a type of synchronization behavior that ensures that multiple independently-operating processes or threads do not interfere
with each other when accessing the same resource. All processes/threads are expected to follow the same steps for locking. If these
steps are not followed precisely - or if no locking is done at all - then another process/thread could modify the shared resource in a
way that is not visible or predictable to the original process. This can lead to data or memory corruption, denial of service, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 662 Improper Synchronization
ParentOf 412 Unrestricted Externally Accessible Lock
ParentOf 413 Improper Resource Locking
ParentOf 414 Missing Lock Check
ParentOf 609 Double-Checked Locking
ParentOf 764 Multiple Locks of a Critical Resource
ParentOf 765 Multiple Unlocks of a Critical Resource
ParentOf 832 Unlock of a Resource that is not Locked
ParentOf 833 Deadlock
ParentOf 1232 Improper Lock Behavior After Power State Transition
ParentOf 1233 Security-Sensitive Hardware Controls with Missing Lock Bit Protection
ParentOf 1234 Hardware Internal or Debug Modes Allow Override of Locks
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU)
Inconsistent locking discipline can lead to deadlock.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following Java snippet, methods are defined to get and set a long field in an instance of a class that is shared across multiple
threads. Because operations on double and long are nonatomic in Java, concurrent access may cause unexpected behavior . Thus, all
operations on long and double fields should be synchronized.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private long someLongValue;
public long getLongValue() {
return someLongValue;
}
public void setLongValue(long l) {
 L Vl l3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-667: Improper Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/667.html 2/4Example 2
This code tries to obtain a lock for a file, then writes to it.
PHP by default will wait indefinitely until a file lock is released. If an attacker is able to obtain the file lock, this code will pause
execution, possibly leading to denial of service for other users. Note that in this case, if an attacker can perform an flock() on the file,
they may already have privileges to destroy the log file. However , this still impacts the execution of other programs that depend on
flock().
Example 3
The following function attempts to acquire a lock in order to perform operations on a shared resource.
However , the code does not check the value returned by pthread\_mutex\_lock() for errors. If pthread\_mutex\_lock() cannot acquire the
mutex for any reason, the function may introduce a race condition into the program and result in undefined behavior .
In order to avoid data races, correctly written programs must check the result of thread synchronization functions and appropriately
handle all errors, either by attempting to recover from them or reporting them to higher levels.
Example 4
It may seem that the following bit of code achieves thread safety while avoiding unnecessary synchronization...someLongValue = l;
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function writeToLog($message){
$logfile = fopen("logFile.log", "a");
//attempt to get logfile lock
if (flock($logfile, LOCK\_EX)) {
fwrite($logfile,$message);
// unlock logfile
flock($logfile, LOCK\_UN);
}
else {
print "Could not obtain lock on logFile.log, message not recorded\n";
}
}
fclose($logFile);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
pthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
/\* access shared resource \*/
pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int f(pthread\_mutex\_t \*mutex) {
int result;
result = pthread\_mutex\_lock(mutex);
if (0 != result)
return result;
/\* access shared resource \*/
return pthread\_mutex\_unlock(mutex);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
if (helper == null) {
synchronized (this) {
if (helper == null) {
helper = new Helper();
}
}
}
return helper;3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-667: Improper Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/667.html 3/4The programmer wants to guarantee that only one Helper() object is ever allocated, but does not want to pay the cost of
synchronization every time this code is called.
Suppose that helper is not initialized. Then, thread A sees that helper==null and enters the synchronized block and begins to execute:
If a second thread, thread B, takes over in the middle of this call and helper has not finished running the constructor , then thread B
may make calls on helper while its fields hold incorrect values.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-1782 Chain: improper locking ( CWE-667 ) leads to race condition ( CWE-362 ), as exploited in the wild per
CISA KEV .
CVE-2009-0935 Attacker provides invalid address to a memory-reading function, causing a mutex to be unlocked twice
CVE-2010-4210 function in OS kernel unlocks a mutex that was not previously locked, causing a panic or overwrite of
arbitrary memory .
CVE-2008-4302 Chain: OS kernel does not properly handle a failure of a function call ( CWE-755 ), leading to an unlock
of a resource that was not locked ( CWE-832 ), with resultant crash.
CVE-2009-1243 OS kernel performs an unlock in some incorrect circumstances, leading to panic.
CVE-2009-2857 OS deadlock
CVE-2009-1961 OS deadlock involving 3 separate functions
CVE-2009-2699 deadlock in library
CVE-2009-4272 deadlock triggered by packets that force collisions in a routing table
CVE-2002-1850 read/write deadlock between web server and script
CVE-2004-0174 web server deadlock involving multiple listening connections
CVE-2009-1388 multiple simultaneous calls to the same function trigger deadlock.
CVE-2006-5158 chain: other weakness leads to NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ) or deadlock ( CWE-833 ).
CVE-2006-4342 deadlock when an operation is performed on a resource while it is being removed.
CVE-2006-2374 Deadlock in device driver triggered by using file handle of a related device.
CVE-2006-2275 Deadlock when large number of small messages cannot be processed quickly enough.
CVE-2005-3847 OS kernel has deadlock triggered by a signal during a core dump.
CVE-2005-3106 Race condition leads to deadlock.
CVE-2005-2456 Chain: array index error ( CWE-129 ) leads to deadlock ( CWE-833 )
CVE-2001-0682 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a mutex.
CVE-2002-1914 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a lock on a critical output file.
CVE-2002-1915 Program can not execute when attacker obtains a lock on a critical output file.
CVE-2002-0051 Critical file can be opened with exclusive read access by user , preventing application of security policy .
Possibly related to improper permissions, large-window race condition.
CVE-2000-0338 Chain: predictable file names used for locking, allowing attacker to create the lock beforehand.
Resultant from permissions and randomness.
CVE-2000-1198 Chain: Lock files with predictable names. Resultant from randomness.
CVE-2002-1869 Product does not check if it can write to a log file, allowing attackers to avoid logging by accessing the
file using an exclusive lock. Overlaps unchecked error condition. This is not quite CWE-412 , but close.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use industry standard APIs to implement locking mechanism.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 852 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 9 - V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 853 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 10 - Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
(bad code) 
helper = new Helper();3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-667: Improper Locking (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/667.html 4/4MemberOf 1142 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 08. V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 1143 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 09. Locking (LCK)
MemberOf 1169 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 14. Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 1171 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 50. POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
Deeper research is necessary for synchronization and related mechanisms, including locks, mutexes, semaphores, and other
mechanisms. Multiple entries are dependent on this research, which includes relationships to concurrency , race conditions, reentrant
functions, etc. CWE-662 and its children - including CWE-667 , CWE-820 , CWE-821 , and others - may need to be modified
significantly , along with their relationships.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding CON31-C CWE More
AbstractDo not destroy a mutex while it is locked
CER T C Secure Coding POS48-C CWE More
AbstractDo not unlock or destroy another POSIX thread's mutex
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA00-J Ensure visibility when accessing shared primitive variables
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA02-J Ensure that compound operations on shared variables are
atomic
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA05-J Ensure atomicity when reading and writing 64-bit values
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)LCK06-J Do not use an instance lock to protect shared static data
Software Fault Patterns SFP19 Missing Lock
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-667
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-25 Forced Deadlock
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-27 Leveraging Race Conditions via Symbolic Links
 References
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-667. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
