3/7/24, 2:44 PM CWE - CWE-1125: Excessive Attack Surface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1125.html 1/1
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1125: Excessive Attack Surface
Weakness ID: 1125
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has an attack surface whose quantitative measurement exceeds a desirable maximum.
 Extended Description
Originating from software security , an "attack surface" measure typically reflects the number of input points and output points that can
be utilized by an untrusted party , i.e. a potential attacker . A larger attack surface provides more places to attack, and more
opportunities for developers to introduce weaknesses. In some cases, this measure may reflect other aspects of quality besides
security; e.g., a product with many inputs and outputs may require a large number of tests in order to improve code coverage.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1120 Excessive Code Complexity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1226 Complexity Issues
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: PROHIBITED (this CWE ID must not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This entry is primarily a quality issue with no direct security implications.
Comments:
Look for weaknesses that are focused specifically on insecure behaviors that have more direct security implications.
 References
[REF-966] Pratyusa Manadhata. "An Attack Surface Metric". 2008-11. < http://reports-archive.adm.cs.cmu.edu/anon/2008/CMU-
CS-08-152.pdf >.
[REF-967] Pratyusa Manadhata and Jeannette M. Wing. "Measuring a System's Attack Surface". 2004.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 ModificationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
PROHIBITED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
