3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1233: Security-Sensitive Hardware Controls with Missing Lock Bit Protection (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1233.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1233: Security-Sensitive Hardware Controls with Missing Lock Bit Protection
Weakness ID: 1233
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a register lock bit protection mechanism, but it does not ensure that the lock bit prevents modification of system
registers or controls that perform changes to important hardware system configuration.
 Extended Description
Integrated circuits and hardware intellectual properties (IPs) might provide device configuration controls that need to be programmed
after device power reset by a trusted firmware or software module, commonly set by BIOS/bootloader . After reset, there can be an
expectation that the controls cannot be used to perform any further modification. This behavior is commonly implemented using a
trusted lock bit, which can be set to disable writes to a protected set of registers or address regions. The lock protection is intended to
prevent modification of certain system configuration (e.g., memory/memory protection unit configuration).
However , if the lock bit does not ef fectively write-protect all system registers or controls that could modify the protected system
configuration, then an adversary may be able to use software to access the registers/controls and modify the protected hardware
configuration.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 667 Improper Locking
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during implementation and identified later during Testing or System
Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
System Configuration protected by the lock bit can be modified even when the lock is set.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the example design below for a digital thermal sensor that detects overheating of the silicon and triggers system shutdown.
The system critical temperature limit (CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT) and thermal sensor calibration (TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB) data haveAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1233: Security-Sensitive Hardware Controls with Missing Lock Bit Protection (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1233.html 2/3to be programmed by the firmware.
In this example note that only the CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT register is protected by the TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK bit, while the security
design intent is to protect any modification of the critical temperature detection and response.
The response of the system, if the system heats to a critical temperature, is controlled by TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN bit [1], which is
not lockable. Also, the TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB register is not protected by the lock bit.
By modifying the temperature sensor calibration, the conversion of the sensor data to a degree centigrade can be changed, such that
the current temperature will never be detected to exceed critical temperature value programmed by the protected lock.
Similarly , by modifying the TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN.Enable bit, the system response detection of the current temperature exceeding
critical temperature can be disabled.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2018-9085 Certain servers leave a write protection lock bit unset after boot, potentially allowing modification of
parts of flash memory .
CVE-2014-8273 Chain: chipset has a race condition ( CWE-362 ) between when an interrupt handler detects an attempt
to write-enable the BIOS (in violation of the lock bit), and when the handler resets the write-enable bit
back to 0, allowing attackers to issue BIOS writes during the timing window [ REF-1237 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; T esting
Security lock bit protections must be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Security lock programming flow and lock properties must be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Set the lock bit. Attempt to modify the information protected by the lock bit. If the information is changed, implement a design fix.
Retest. Also, attempt to indirectly clear the lock bit or bypass it.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1372 ICS Supply Chain: OT Counterfeit and Malicious Corruption
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
Register Field description
CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT[31:8] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[7:0] Critical temp 0-255 Centigrade; Read-write-lock; Default 125
TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB[31:0] Thermal sensor calibration data. A slope value used to map sensor reading to a degree Centigrade.
Read-write; Default 25
TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK[31:1] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[0] Lock bit, locks CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT register; Write-1-once; Default 0
TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN[31:2] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[1] Enable hardware shutdown on a critical temperature detection; Read-write; Default 0
CURRENT\_TEMP[31:8] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[7:0] Current Temp 0-255 Centigrade; Read-only; Default 0
(good code) 
Change TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN and TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB controls to be locked by TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK.
TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB[31:0] Thermal sensor calibration data. A slope value used to map sensor reading to a degree Centigrade.
Read-write-Lock; Default 25; Locked by TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK bit[0]
TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN[31:2] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[1] Enable hardware shutdown on critical temperature detection; Read-write-Lock; Default 0; Locked by
TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK bit[0]3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1233: Security-Sensitive Hardware Controls with Missing Lock Bit Protection (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1233.html 3/3Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-176 Configuration/Environment Manipulation
CAPEC-680 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Registers
 References
[REF-1237] CER T Coordination Center . "Intel BIOS locking mechanism contains race condition that enables write protection
bypass". 2015-01-05. < https://www .kb.cert.org/vuls/id/766164/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-01-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar
V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-20 Narasimha Kumar V Mangipudi Lattice
Semiconductor
reviewed content changes
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names