3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1021: Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1021.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1021: Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames
Weakness ID: 1021
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The web application does not restrict or incorrectly restricts frame objects or UI layers that belong to another application or domain,
which can lead to user confusion about which interface the user is interacting with.
 Extended Description
A web application is expected to place restrictions on whether it is allowed to be rendered within frames, iframes, objects, embed or
applet elements. Without the restrictions, users can be tricked into interacting with the application when they were not intending to.
 Alternate T erms
Clickjacking
UI Redress Attack
Tapjacking: "Tapjacking" is similar to clickjacking, except it is used for mobile applications in which the user "taps" the
application instead of performing a mouse click.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 451 User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information
ChildOf 441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Read Application Data; Modify
Application Data
An attacker can trick a user into performing actions that are masked and hidden from the user's
view. The impact varies widely , depending on the functionality of the underlying application. For
example, in a social media application, clickjacking could be used to trik the user into changing
privacy settings.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-7440 E-mail preview feature in a desktop application allows clickjacking attacks via a crafted e-mail message
CVE-2017-5697 Hardware/firmware product has insuf ficient clickjacking protection in its web user interface
CVE-2017-4015 Clickjacking in data-loss prevention product via HTTP response header .
CVE-2016-2496 Tapjacking in permission dialog for mobile OS allows access of private storage using a partially-
overlapping window .
CVE-2015-1241 Tapjacking in web browser related to page navigation and touch/gesture events.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1021: Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1021.html 2/3CVE-2017-0492 System UI in mobile OS allows a malicious application to create a UI overlay of the entire screen to
gain privileges.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
The use of X-Frame-Options allows developers of web content to restrict the usage of their application within the form of
overlays, frames, or iFrames. The developer can indicate from which domains can frame the content.
The concept of X-Frame-Options is well documented, but implementation of this protection mechanism is in development to
cover gaps. There is a need for allowing frames from multiple domains.
Phase: Implementation
A developer can use a "frame-breaker" script in each page that should not be framed. This is very helpful for legacy browsers
that do not support X-Frame-Options security feature previously mentioned.
It is also important to note that this tactic has been circumvented or bypassed. Improper usage of frames can persist in the web
application through nested frames. The "frame-breaking" script does not intuitively account for multiple nested frames that can
be presented to the user .
Phase: Implementation
This defense-in-depth technique can be used to prevent the improper usage of frames in web applications. It prioritizes the valid
sources of data to be loaded into the application through the usage of declarative policies. Based on which implementation of
Content Security Policy is in use, the developer should use the "frame-ancestors" directive or the "frame-src" directive to
mitigate this weakness. Both directives allow for the placement of restrictions when it comes to allowing embedded content.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-103 Clickjacking
CAPEC-181 Flash File Overlay
CAPEC-222 iFrame Overlay
CAPEC-504 Task Impersonation
CAPEC-506 Tapjacking
CAPEC-587 Cross Frame Scripting (XFS)
CAPEC-654 Credential Prompt Impersonation
 References
[REF-35] Andrew Horton. "Clickjacking For Shells". < https://www .exploit-db.com/docs/17881.pdf >.
[REF-36] OW ASP. "Clickjacking - OW ASP". < https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Clickjacking >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-37] Internet Security . "SecTheory". < https://www .sectheory .com/clickjacking.htm >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-38] W3C. "Content Security Policy Level 3". < https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-csp/ >.
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1021: Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1021.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2017-08-01
(CWE 2.12, 2017-11-08)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications