3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-620: Unveriﬁed Password Change (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/620.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-620: Unverified Password Change
Weakness ID: 620
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When setting a new password for a user , the product does not require knowledge of the original password, or using another form of
authentication.
 Extended Description
This could be used by an attacker to change passwords for another user , thus gaining the privileges associated with that user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code changes a user's password.
While the code confirms that the requesting user typed the same new password twice, it does not confirm that the user requesting the
password change is the same user whose password will be changed. An attacker can request a change of another user's password
and gain control of the victim's account.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0681 Web app allows remote attackers to change the passwords of arbitrary users without providing the
original password, and possibly perform other unauthorized actions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$user = $\_GET['user'];
$pass = $\_GET['pass'];
$checkpass = $\_GET['checkpass'];
if ($pass == $checkpass) {
SetUserPassword($user, $pass);
}3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-620: Unveriﬁed Password Change (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/620.html 2/2CVE-2000-0944 Web application password change utility doesn't check the original password.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
When prompting for a password change, force the user to provide the original password in addition to the new password.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Do not use "forgotten password" functionality . But if you must, ensure that you are only providing information to the actual user ,
e.g. by using an email address or challenge question that the legitimate user already provided in the past; do not allow the
current user to change this identity information until the correct password has been provided.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 930 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A2 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 952 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Authentication
MemberOf 1028 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A2 - Broken Authentication
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
Software Fault Patterns SFP31 Missing authentication
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
