3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-58: Path Equivalence: Windows 8.3 Filename (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/58.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-58: Path Equivalence: W indows 8.3 Filename
Weakness ID: 58
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains a protection mechanism that restricts access to a long filename on a Windows operating system, but it does not
properly restrict access to the equivalent short "8.3" filename.
 Extended Description
On later Windows operating systems, a file can have a "long name" and a short name that is compatible with older Windows file
systems, with up to 8 characters in the filename and 3 characters for the extension. These "8.3" filenames, therefore, act as an
alternate name for files with long names, so they are useful pathname equivalence manipulations.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 41 Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-0012 Multiple web servers allow restriction bypass using 8.3 names instead of long names
CVE-2001-0795 Source code disclosure using 8.3 file name.
CVE-2005-0471 Multi-Factor V ulnerability . Product generates temporary filenames using long filenames, which become
predictable in 8.3 format.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Disable Windows from supporting 8.3 filenames by editing the Windows registry . Preventing 8.3 filenames will not remove
previously generated 8.3 filenames.
 Functional Areas
File Processing
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File HandlingAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-58: Path Equivalence: Windows 8.3 Filename (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/58.html 2/2
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Probably under-studied.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Windows 8.3 Filename
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "DOS 8.3
Filenames", Page 673. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names