3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1351: Improper Handling of Hardware Behavior in Exceptionally Cold Environments (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1351.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1351: Improper Handling of Hardware Behavior in Exceptionally Cold
Environments
Weakness ID: 1351
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A hardware device, or the firmware running on it, is missing or has incorrect protection features to maintain goals of security primitives
when the device is cooled below standard operating temperatures.
 Extended Description
The hardware designer may improperly anticipate hardware behavior when exposed to exceptionally cold conditions. As a result they
may introduce a weakness by not accounting for the modified behavior of critical components when in extreme environments.
An example of a change in behavior is that power loss won't clear/reset any volatile state when cooled below standard operating
temperatures. This may result in a weakness when the starting state of the volatile memory is being relied upon for a security
decision. For example, a Physical Unclonable Function (PUF) may be supplied as a security primitive to improve confidentiality ,
authenticity , and integrity guarantees. However , when the PUF is paired with DRAM, SRAM, or another temperature sensitive entropy
source, the system designer may introduce weakness by failing to account for the chosen entropy source's behavior at exceptionally
low temperatures. In the case of DRAM and SRAM, when power is cycled at low temperatures, the device will not contain the bitwise
biasing caused by inconsistencies in manufacturing and will instead contain the data from previous boot. Should the PUF primitive be
used in a cryptographic construction which does not account for full adversary control of PUF seed data, weakness would arise.
This weakness does not cover "Cold Boot Attacks" wherein RAM or other external storage is super cooled and read externally by an
attacker .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1384 Improper Handling of Physical or Environmental Conditions
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1205 Security Primitives and Cryptography Issues
MemberOf 1388 Physical Access Issues and Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Embedded (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Microcomputer (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AuthenticationTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
Consequences of this weakness are highly contextual.LowAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1351: Improper Handling of Hardware Behavior in Exceptionally Cold Environments (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1351.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
The system should account for security primitive behavior when cooled outside standard temperatures.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1181] Nikolaos Athanasios Anagnostopoulos, Tolga Arul, Markus Rosenstihl, André Schaller , Sebastian Gabmeyer and
Stefan Katzenbeisser . "Low-T emperature Data Remnanence Attacks Against Intrinsic SRAM PUFs". 2018-10-15.
.
[REF-1182] Yuan Cao, Yunyi Guo, Benyu Liu, W ei Ge, Min Zhu and Chip-Hong Chang. "A Fully Digital Physical Unclonable
Function Based Temperature Sensor for Secure Remote Sensing". 2018-10-11.
.
[REF-1183] Urbi Chatterjee, Soumi Chatterjee, Debdeep Mukhopadhyay and Rajat Subhra Chakraborty . "Machine Learning
Assisted PUF Calibration for Trustworthy Proof of Sensor Data in IoT". 2020-06. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3393628 >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-10-23
(CWE 4.5, 2021-07-20)Paul A. W ortman Wells Fargo
 Modifications
