3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-467: Use of sizeof() on a Pointer Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/467.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-467: Use of sizeof() on a Pointer T ype
Weakness ID: 467
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code calls sizeof() on a malloced pointer type, which always returns the wordsize/8. This can produce an unexpected result if the
programmer intended to determine how much memory has been allocated.
 Extended Description
The use of sizeof() on a pointer can sometimes generate useful information. An obvious case is to find out the wordsize on a platform.
More often than not, the appearance of sizeof(pointer) indicates a bug.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 131 Incorrect Calculation of Buf fer Size
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory
This error can often cause one to allocate a buf fer that is much smaller than what is needed, leading
to resultant weaknesses such as buf fer overflows.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Care should be taken to ensure sizeof returns the size of the data structure itself, and not the size of the pointer to the data structure.
In this example, sizeof(foo) returns the size of the pointer .
In this example, sizeof(\*foo) returns the size of the data structure and not the size of the pointer .
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
double \*foo;
...
foo = (double \*)malloc(sizeof(foo));
(good code) Example Language: C 
double \*foo;
...
foo = (double \*)malloc(sizeof(\*foo));3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-467: Use of sizeof() on a Pointer Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/467.html 2/3This example defines a fixed username and password. The AuthenticateUser() function is intended to accept a username and a
password from an untrusted user , and check to ensure that it matches the username and password. If the username and password
match, AuthenticateUser() is intended to indicate that authentication succeeded.
In AuthenticateUser(), because sizeof() is applied to a parameter with an array type, the sizeof() call might return 4 on many modern
architectures. As a result, the strncmp() call only checks the first four characters of the input password, resulting in a partial
comparison ( CWE-187 ), leading to improper authentication ( CWE-287 ).
Because of the partial comparison, any of these passwords would still cause authentication to succeed for the "admin" user:
Because only 4 characters are checked, this significantly reduces the search space for an attacker , making brute force attacks more
feasible.
The same problem also applies to the username, so values such as "adminXYZ" and "administrator" will succeed for the username.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use expressions such as "sizeof(\*pointer)" instead of "sizeof(pointer)", unless you intend to run sizeof() on a pointer type to gain
some platform independence or if you are allocating a variable on the stack.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a(bad code) 
/\* Ignore CWE-259 (hard-coded password) and CWE-309 (use of password system for authentication) for this example. \*/
char \*username = "admin";
char \*pass = "password";
int AuthenticateUser(char \*inUser, char \*inPass) {
printf("Sizeof username = %d\n", sizeof(username));
printf("Sizeof pass = %d\n", sizeof(pass));
if (strncmp(username, inUser, sizeof(username))) {
printf("Auth failure of username using sizeof\n");
return(AUTH\_FAIL);
}
/\* Because of CWE-467, the sizeof returns 4 on many platforms and architectures. \*/
if (! strncmp(pass, inPass, sizeof(pass))) {
printf("Auth success of password using sizeof\n");
return(AUTH\_SUCCESS);
}
else {
printf("Auth fail of password using sizeof\n");
return(AUTH\_FAIL);
}
}
int main (int argc, char \*\*argv)
{
int authResult;
if (argc < 3) {
ExitError("Usage: Provide a username and password");
}
authResult = AuthenticateUser(argv[1], argv[2]);
if (authResult != AUTH\_SUCCESS) {
ExitError("Authentication failed");
}
else {
DoAuthenticatedTask(argv[1]);
}
}
(attack code) 
pass5
passABCDEFGH
passWORD3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-467: Use of sizeof() on a Pointer Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/467.html 3/3model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 737 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 974 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Buf fer Length Computation
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Use of sizeof() on a pointer type
CER T C Secure Coding ARR01-C Do not apply the sizeof operator to a pointer when taking the
size of an array
CER T C Secure Coding MEM35-C CWE More
AbstractAllocate suf ficient memory for an object
Software Fault Patterns SFP10 Incorrect Buf fer Length Computation
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-442] Robert Seacord. "EXP01-A. Do not take the sizeof a pointer to determine the size of a type".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
