3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-105: Struts: Form Field Without Validator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/105.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-105: Struts: Form Field W ithout V alidator
Weakness ID: 105
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has a form field that is not validated by a corresponding validation form, which can introduce other weaknesses related to
insuf ficient input validation.
 Extended Description
Omitting validation for even a single input field may give attackers the leeway they need to compromise the product. Although J2EE
applications are not generally susceptible to memory corruption attacks, if a J2EE application interfaces with native code that does not
perform array bounds checking, an attacker may be able to use an input validation mistake in the J2EE application to launch a buf fer
overflow attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1173 Improper Use of V alidation Framework
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationSome products use the same ActionForm for more than one purpose. In situations like this, some fields may go
unused under some action mappings.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
If unused fields are not validated, shared business logic in an action may allow attackers to bypass the
validation checks that are performed for other uses of the form.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example the Java class RegistrationForm is a Struts framework ActionForm Bean that will maintain user input data
from a registration webpage for an online business site. The user will enter registration data and, through the Struts framework, the
RegistrationForm bean will maintain the user data in the form fields using the private member variables. The RegistrationForm class
uses the Struts validation capability by extending the V alidatorForm class and including the validation for the form fields within the
validator XML file, validator .xml.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(result) 
public class RegistrationForm extends org.apache.struts.validator.ValidatorForm {
// private variables for registration form
private String name;
private String address;
private String city;
private String state;
private String zipcode;
private String phone;
private String email;3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-105: Struts: Form Field Without Validator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/105.html 2/3The validator XML file, validator .xml, provides the validation for the form fields of the RegistrationForm.
However , in the previous example the validator XML file, validator .xml, does not provide validators for all of the form fields in the
RegistrationForm. V alidator forms are only provided for the first five of the seven form fields. The validator XML file should contain
validator forms for all of the form fields for a Struts ActionForm bean. The following validator .xml file for the RegistrationForm class
contains validator forms for all of the form fields.public RegistrationForm() {
super();
}
// getter and setter methods for private variables
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: XML 















mask
[a-zA-Z]{2}





mask
\d{5}





(good code) Example Language: XML 















mask
[a-zA-Z]{2}





mask
\d{5}





mask
^([0-9]{3})(-)([0-9]{4}|[0-9]{4})$

3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-105: Struts: Form Field Without Validator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/105.html 3/3
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Validate all form fields. If a field is unused, it is still important to constrain it so that it is empty or undefined.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: Form Field Without V alidator
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications






