3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-179: Incorrect Behavior Order: Early Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/179.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-179: Incorrect Behavior Order: Early V alidation
Weakness ID: 179
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product validates input before applying protection mechanisms that modify the input, which could allow an attacker to bypass the
validation via dangerous inputs that only arise after the modification.
 Extended Description
Product needs to validate data at the proper time, after data has been canonicalized and cleansed. Early validation is susceptible to
various manipulations that result in dangerous inputs that are produced by canonicalization and cleansing.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 20 Improper Input V alidation
ChildOf 696 Incorrect Behavior Order
ParentOf 180 Incorrect Behavior Order: V alidate Before Canonicalize
ParentOf 181 Incorrect Behavior Order: V alidate Before Filter
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationSince early validation errors usually arise from improperly implemented defensive mechanisms, it is likely that
these will be introduced more frequently as secure programming becomes implemented more widely .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
An attacker could include dangerous input that bypasses validation protection mechanisms which
can be used to launch various attacks including injection attacks, execute arbitrary code or cause
other unintended behavior .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to validate a given input path by checking it against an allowlist and then return the canonical path. In this
specific case, the path is considered valid if it starts with the string "/safe\_dir/".About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String path = getInputPath();
if (path.startsWith("/safe\_dir/"))
{
File f = new File(path);
return f.getCanonicalPath();
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-179: Incorrect Behavior Order: Early Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/179.html 2/3The problem with the above code is that the validation step occurs before canonicalization occurs. An attacker could provide an input
path of "/safe\_dir/../" that would pass the validation step. However , the canonicalization process sees the double dot as a traversal to
the parent directory and hence when canonicized the path would become just "/".
To avoid this problem, validation should occur after canonicalization takes place. In this case canonicalization occurs during the
initialization of the File object. The code below fixes the issue.
Example 2
This script creates a subdirectory within a user directory and sets the user as the owner .
While the script attempts to screen for '..' sequences, an attacker can submit a directory path including ".~.", which will then become
".." after the filtering step. This allows a Path Traversal ( CWE-21 ) attack to occur .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0433 Product allows remote attackers to view restricted files via an HTTP request containing a "\*" (wildcard
or asterisk) character .
CVE-2003-0332 Product modifies the first two letters of a filename extension after performing a security check, which
allows remote attackers to bypass authentication via a filename with a .ats extension instead of a .hts
extension.
CVE-2002-0802 Database consumes an extra character when processing a character that cannot be converted, which
could remove an escape character from the query and make the application subject to SQL injection
attacks.
CVE-2000-0191 Overlaps "fakechild/../realchild"
CVE-2004-2363 Product checks URI for "<" and other literal characters, but does it before hex decoding the URI, so
"%3E" and other sequences are allowed.
CVE-2002-0934 Directory traversal vulnerability allows remote attackers to read or modify arbitrary files via invalid
characters between two . (dot) characters, which are filtered and result in a ".." sequence.
CVE-2003-0282 Directory traversal vulnerability allows attackers to overwrite arbitrary files via invalid characters
between two . (dot) characters, which are filtered and result in a ".." sequence.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
(good code) Example Language: Java 
String path = getInputPath();
File f = new File(path);
if (f.getCanonicalPath().startsWith("/safe\_dir/"))
{
return f.getCanonicalPath();
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function createDir($userName,$dirName){
$userDir = '/users/'. $userName;
if(strpos($dirName,'..') !== false){
echo 'Directory name contains invalid sequence';
return;
}
//filter out '~' because other scripts identify user directories by this prefix
$dirName = str\_replace('~','',$dirName);
$newDir = $userDir . $dirName;
mkdir($newDir, 0700);
chown($newDir,$userName);
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-179: Incorrect Behavior Order: Early Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/179.html 3/3Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
These errors are mostly reported in path traversal vulnerabilities, but the concept applies whenever validation occurs.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Early V alidation Errors
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-3 Using Leading 'Ghost' Character Sequences to Bypass Input Filters
CAPEC-43 Exploiting Multiple Input Interpretation Layers
CAPEC-71 Using Unicode Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 8, "Escaping
Metacharacters", Page 439. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names