3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-368: Context Switching Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/368.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-368: Context Switching Race Condition
Weakness ID: 368
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product performs a series of non-atomic actions to switch between contexts that cross privilege or other security boundaries, but a
race condition allows an attacker to modify or misrepresent the product's behavior during the switch.
 Extended Description
This is commonly seen in web browser vulnerabilities in which the attacker can perform certain actions while the browser is
transitioning from a trusted to an untrusted domain, or vice versa, and the browser performs the actions on one domain using the trust
level and resources of the other domain.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
CanAlsoBe 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Read Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2009-1837 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) from improper handling of a page transition in web client while an
applet is loading ( CWE-368 ) leads to use after free ( CWE-416 )
CVE-2004-2260 Browser updates address bar as soon as user clicks on a link instead of when the page has loaded,
allowing spoofing by redirecting to another page using onUnload method. \*\* this is one example of the
role of "hooks" and context switches, and should be captured somehow - also a race condition of sorts
\*\*
CVE-2004-0191 XSS when web browser executes Javascript events in the context of a new page while it's being
loaded, allowing interaction with previous page in dif ferent domain.
CVE-2004-2491 Web browser fills in address bar of clicked-on link before page has been loaded, and doesn't update
afterward.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This weakness can be primary to almost anything, depending on the context of the race condition.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-368: Context Switching Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/368.html 2/2Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This weakness can be resultant from insuf ficient compartmentalization ( CWE-653 ), incorrect locking, improper
initialization or shutdown, or a number of other weaknesses.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Can overlap signal handler race conditions.
Research Gap
Under-studied as a concept. Frequency unknown; few vulnerability reports give enough detail to know when a context switching race
condition is a factor .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Context Switching Race Condition
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
