3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-267: Privilege Deﬁned With Unsafe Actions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/267.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-267: Privilege Defined W ith Unsafe Actions
Weakness ID: 267
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A particular privilege, role, capability , or right can be used to perform unsafe actions that were not intended, even when it is assigned
to the correct entity .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
ParentOf 623 Unsafe ActiveX Control Marked Safe For Scripting
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
A user can access restricted functionality and/or sensitive information that may include
administrative functionality and user accounts.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code intends to allow only Administrators to print debug information about a system.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public enum Roles {
ADMIN,USER,GUEST
}
public void printDebugInfo(User requestingUser){
if(isAuthenticated(requestingUser)){
switch(requestingUser.role){
case GUEST:
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
default:
System.out.println(currentDebugState());
break;
}
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-267: Privilege Deﬁned With Unsafe Actions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/267.html 2/3While the intention was to only allow Administrators to print the debug information, the code as written only excludes those with the
role of "GUEST". Someone with the role of "ADMIN" or "USER" will be allowed access, which goes against the original intent. An
attacker may be able to use this debug information to craft an attack on the system.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1981 Roles have access to dangerous procedures (Accessible entities).
CVE-2002-1671 Untrusted object/method gets access to clipboard (Accessible entities).
CVE-2004-2204 Gain privileges using functions/tags that should be restricted (Accessible entities).
CVE-2000-0315 Traceroute program allows unprivileged users to modify source address of packet (Accessible entities).
CVE-2004-0380 Bypass domain restrictions using a particular file that references unsafe URI schemes (Accessible
entities).
CVE-2002-1154 Script does not restrict access to an update command, leading to resultant disk consumption and filled
error logs (Accessible entities).
CVE-2002-1145 "public" database user can use stored procedure to modify data controlled by the database owner
(Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2000-0506 User with capability can prevent setuid program from dropping privileges (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2002-2042 Allows attachment to and modification of privileged processes (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2000-1212 User with privilege can edit raw underlying object using unprotected method (Unsafe privileged
actions).
CVE-2005-1742 Inappropriate actions allowed by a particular role(Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2001-1480 Untrusted entity allowed to access the system clipboard (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2001-1551 Extra Linux capability allows bypass of system-specified restriction (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2001-1166 User with debugging rights can read entire process (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2005-1816 Non-root admins can add themselves or others to the root admin group (Unsafe privileged actions).
CVE-2005-2173 Users can change certain properties of objects to perform otherwise unauthorized actions (Unsafe
privileged actions).
CVE-2005-2027 Certain debugging commands not restricted to just the administrator , allowing registry modification and
infoleak (Unsafe privileged actions).
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
Note: there are 2 separate sub-categories here:
}
else{
System.out.println("You must be logged in to perform this command");
}
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-267: Privilege Deﬁned With Unsafe Actions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/267.html 3/3- privilege incorrectly allows entities to perform certain actions
- object is incorrectly accessible to entities with a given privilege
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unsafe Privilege
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-58 Restful Privilege Elevation
CAPEC-634 Probe Audio and V ideo Peripherals
CAPEC-637 Collect Data from Clipboard
CAPEC-643 Identify Shared Files/Directories on System
CAPEC-648 Collect Data from Screen Capture
 References
[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names