3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-316: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/316.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-316: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory
Weakness ID: 316
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in cleartext in memory .
 Extended Description
The sensitive memory might be saved to disk, stored in a core dump, or remain uncleared if the product crashes, or if the programmer
does not properly clear the memory before freeing it.
It could be argued that such problems are usually only exploitable by those with administrator privileges. However , swapping could
cause the memory to be written to disk and leave it accessible to physical attack afterwards. Core dump files might have insecure
permissions or be stored in archive files that are accessible to untrusted people. Or , uncleared sensitive memory might be
inadvertently exposed to attackers due to another weakness.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1517 Sensitive authentication information in cleartext in memory .
CVE-2001-0984 Password protector leaves passwords in memory when window is minimized, even when "clear
password when minimized" is set.
CVE-2003-0291 SSH client does not clear credentials from memory .
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-316: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/316.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This could be a resultant weakness, e.g. if the compiler removes code that was intended to wipe memory .
Terminology
Different people use "cleartext" and "plaintext" to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However , within cryptography , these
have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-
encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-
readable (such as base64 encoding).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Storage in Memory
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names