3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-403: Exposure of File Descriptor to Unintended Control Sphere ('File Descriptor Leak') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/403.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-403: Exposure of File Descriptor to Unintended Control Sphere ('File
Descriptor Leak')
Weakness ID: 403
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A process does not close sensitive file descriptors before invoking a child process, which allows the child to perform unauthorized I/O
operations using those descriptors.
 Extended Description
When a new process is forked or executed, the child process inherits any open file descriptors. When the child process has fewer
privileges than the parent process, this might introduce a vulnerability if the child process can access the file descriptor but does not
have the privileges to access the associated file.
 Alternate T erms
File descriptor leak: While this issue is frequently called a file descriptor leak, the "leak" term is often used in two dif ferent
ways - exposure of a resource, or consumption of a resource. Use of this term could cause confusion.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 402 Transmission of Private Resources into a New Sphere ('Resource Leak')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Unix (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-0740 Server leaks a privileged file descriptor , allowing the server to be hijacked.
CVE-2004-1033 File descriptor leak allows read of restricted files.
CVE-2000-0094 Access to restricted resource using modified file descriptor for stderr .
CVE-2002-0638 Open file descriptor used as alternate channel in complex race condition.
CVE-2003-0489 Program does not fully drop privileges after creating a file descriptor , which allows access to the
descriptor via a separate vulnerability .
CVE-2003-0937 User bypasses restrictions by obtaining a file descriptor then calling setuid program, which does not
close the descriptor .
CVE-2004-2215 Terminal manager does not properly close file descriptors, allowing attackers to access terminals of
other users.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-403: Exposure of File Descriptor to Unintended Control Sphere ('File Descriptor Leak') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/403.html 2/2CVE-2006-5397 Module opens a file for reading twice, allowing attackers to read files.
 Affected Resources
System Process
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER UNIX file descriptor leak
CER T C Secure Coding FIO42-C Ensure files are properly closed when they are no longer needed
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-392] Paul Roberts. "File descriptors and setuid applications". 2007-02-05.
.
[REF-393] Apple. "Introduction to Secure Coding Guide". Elevating Privileges Safely .
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
