3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1269: Product Released in Non-Release Conﬁguration (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1269.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1269: Product Released in Non-Release Configuration
Weakness ID: 1269
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product released to market is released in pre-production or manufacturing configuration.
 Extended Description
Products in the pre-production or manufacturing stages are configured to have many debug hooks and debug capabilities, including
but not limited to:
Ability to override/bypass various cryptographic checks (including authentication, authorization, and integrity)
Ability to read/write/modify/dump internal state (including registers and memory)
Ability to change system configurations
Ability to run hidden or private commands that are not allowed during production (as they expose IP).
The above is by no means an exhaustive list, but it alludes to the greater capability and the greater state of vulnerability of a product
during it's preproduction or manufacturing state.
Complexity increases when multiple parties are involved in executing the tests before the final production version. For example, a
chipmaker might fabricate a chip and run its own preproduction tests, following which the chip would be delivered to the Original
Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), who would now run a second set of dif ferent preproduction tests on the same chip. Only after both of
these sets of activities are complete, can the overall manufacturing phase be called "complete" and have the "Manufacturing
Complete" fuse blown. However , if the OEM forgets to blow the Manufacturing Complete fuse, then the system remains in the
manufacturing stage, rendering the system both exposed and vulnerable.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1195 Manufacturing and Life Cycle Management Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Integration
Manufacturing
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Compiled (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Other (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact LikelihoodAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1269: Product Released in Non-Release Conﬁguration (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1269.html 2/3Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access Control
Accountability
Authentication
Authorization
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: OtherHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example shows what happens when a preproduction system is made available for production.
An attacker will now be able to scan all the internal memory (containing chipmaker-level secrets).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-13945 Regarding SSA-686531, a hardware based manufacturing access on S7-1200 and S7-200 SMAR T has
occurred. A vulnerability has been identified in SIMA TIC S7-1200 CPU family (incl. SIPLUS variants)
(All versions), SIMA TIC S7-200 SMAR T CPU family (All versions). There is an access mode used
during manufacturing of S7-1200 CPUs that allows additional diagnostic functionality . The security
vulnerability could be exploited by an attacker with physical access to the UAR T interface during boot
process. At the time of advisory publication, no public exploitation of this security vulnerability was
known.
CVE-2018-4251 Laptops with Intel chipsets were found to be running in Manufacturing Mode. After this information was
reported to the OEM, the vulnerability (CVE-2018-4251) was patched disallowing access to the
interface.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that there exists a marker for denoting the Manufacturing Complete stage and that the Manufacturing Complete marker
gets updated at the Manufacturing Complete stage (i.e., the Manufacturing Complete fuse gets blown).
Phase: Integration
Ensure that there exists a marker for denoting the Manufacturing Complete stage and that the Manufacturing Complete marker
gets updated at the Manufacturing Complete stage (i.e., the Manufacturing Complete fuse gets blown).
Phase: Manufacturing
Ensure that there exists a marker for denoting the Manufacturing Complete stage and that the Manufacturing Complete marker
gets updated at the Manufacturing Complete stage (i.e., the Manufacturing Complete fuse gets blown).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
(bad code) 
Suppose the chipmaker has a way of scanning all the internal memory (containing chipmaker-level secrets) during the manufacturing
phase, and the way the chipmaker or the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) marks the end of the manufacturing phase is by
blowing a Manufacturing Complete fuse. Now, suppose that whoever blows the Manufacturing Complete fuse inadvertently forgets to
execute the step to blow the fuse.
(good code) 
Blow the Manufacturing Complete fuse.3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1269: Product Released in Non-Release Conﬁguration (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1269.html 3/3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-439 Manipulation During Distribution
 References
[REF-1103] Lucian Armasu. "Intel ME's Undocumented Manufacturing Mode Suggests CPU Hacking Risks". 2018-10-03.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-31
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications