3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1190: DMA Device Enabled Too Early in Boot Phase (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1190.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1190: DMA Device Enabled T oo Early in Boot Phase
Weakness ID: 1190
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product enables a Direct Memory Access (DMA) capable device before the security configuration settings are established, which
allows an attacker to extract data from or gain privileges on the product.
 Extended Description
DMA is included in a number of devices because it allows data transfer between the computer and the connected device, using direct
hardware access to read or write directly to main memory without any OS interaction. An attacker could exploit this to access secrets.
Several virtualization-based mitigations have been introduced to thwart DMA attacks. These are usually configured/setup during boot
time. However , certain IPs that are powered up before boot is complete (known as early boot IPs) may be DMA capable. Such IPs, if
not trusted, could launch DMA attacks and gain access to assets that should otherwise be protected.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 696 Incorrect Behavior Order
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Modify Memory
DMA devices have direct write access to main memory and due to time of attack will be able to
bypass OS or Bootloader access control.High
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Utilize an IOMMU to orchestrate IO access from the start of the boot process.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-UseAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1190: DMA Device Enabled Too Early in Boot Phase (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1190.html 2/2Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 References
[REF-1038] "DMA attack". 2019-10-19. < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DMA\_attack >.
[REF-1039] A. Theodore Markettos, Colin Rothwell, Brett F . Gutstein, Allison Pearce, Peter G. Neumann, Simon W . Moore and
Robert N. M. W atson. "Thunderclap: Exploring V ulnerabilities in Operating System IOMMU Protection via DMA from
Untrustworthy Peripherals". 2019-02-25. < https://www .ndss-symposium.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ndss2019\_05A-
1\_Markettos\_paper .pdf>.
[REF-1040] Maximillian Dornseif, Michael Becher and Christian N. Klein. "FireWire all your memory are belong to us". 2005.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1041] Rory Breuk, Albert Spruyt and Adam Boileau. "Integrating DMA attacks in exploitation frameworks". 2012-02-20.
.
[REF-1042] Maximillian Dornseif. "Owned by an iPod". 2004.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1044] Dmytro Oleksiuk. "My aimful life". 2015-09-12. < http://blog.cr4.sh/2015/09/breaking-uefi-security-with-software.html >.
[REF-1046] A. Theodore Markettos and Adam Boileau. "Hit by a Bus:Physical Access Attacks with Firewire". 2006.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications