3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/77.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command
('Command Injection')
Weakness ID: 77
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs all or part of a command using externally-influenced input from an upstream component, but it does not
neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could modify the intended command when it is sent to a downstream
component.
 Extended Description
Command injection vulnerabilities typically occur when:
1. Data enters the application from an untrusted source.
2. The data is part of a string that is executed as a command by the application.
3. By executing the command, the application gives an attacker a privilege or capability that the attacker would not otherwise have.
Many protocols and products have their own custom command language. While OS or shell command strings are frequently
discovered and targeted, developers may not realize that these other command languages might also be vulnerable to attacks.
Command injection is a common problem with wrapper programs.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 74 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements in Output Used by a Downstream Component
('Injection')
ParentOf 78 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command
Injection')
ParentOf 88 Improper Neutralization of Argument Delimiters in a Command ('Argument Injection')
ParentOf 624 Executable Regular Expression Error
ParentOf 917 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an Expression Language Statement
('Expression Language Injection')
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If a malicious user injects a character (such as a semi-colon) that delimits the end of one command
and the beginning of another , it may be possible to then insert an entirely new and unrelated
command that was not intended to be executed.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/77.html 2/5Example 1
The following simple program accepts a filename as a command line argument and displays the contents of the file back to the user .
The program is installed setuid root because it is intended for use as a learning tool to allow system administrators in-training to
inspect privileged system files without giving them the ability to modify them or damage the system.
Because the program runs with root privileges, the call to system() also executes with root privileges. If a user specifies a standard
filename, the call works as expected. However , if an attacker passes a string of the form ";rm -rf /", then the call to system() fails to
execute cat due to a lack of arguments and then plows on to recursively delete the contents of the root partition.
Note that if argv[1] is a very long argument, then this issue might also be subject to a buf fer overflow ( CWE-120 ).
Example 2
The following code is from an administrative web application designed to allow users to kick of f a backup of an Oracle database using
a batch-file wrapper around the rman utility and then run a cleanup.bat script to delete some temporary files. The script rmanDB.bat
accepts a single command line parameter , which specifies what type of backup to perform. Because access to the database is
restricted, the application runs the backup as a privileged user .
The problem here is that the program does not do any validation on the backuptype parameter read from the user . Typically the
Runtime.exec() function will not execute multiple commands, but in this case the program first runs the cmd.exe shell in order to run
multiple commands with a single call to Runtime.exec(). Once the shell is invoked, it will happily execute multiple commands
separated by two ampersands. If an attacker passes a string of the form "& del c:\\dbms\\\*.\*", then the application will execute this
command along with the others specified by the program. Because of the nature of the application, it runs with the privileges
necessary to interact with the database, which means whatever command the attacker injects will run with those privileges as well.
Example 3
The following code from a system utility uses the system property APPHOME to determine the directory in which it is installed and
then executes an initialization script based on a relative path from the specified directory .
The code above allows an attacker to execute arbitrary commands with the elevated privilege of the application by modifying the
system property APPHOME to point to a dif ferent path containing a malicious version of INITCMD. Because the program does not
validate the value read from the environment, if an attacker can control the value of the system property APPHOME, then they can
fool the application into running malicious code and take control of the system.
Example 4
The following code is a wrapper around the UNIX command cat which prints the contents of a file to standard out. It is also injectable:(bad code) Example Language: C 
int main(int argc, char\*\* argv) {
char cmd[CMD\_MAX] = "/usr/bin/cat ";
strcat(cmd, argv[1]);
system(cmd);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
String btype = request.getParameter("backuptype");
String cmd = new String("cmd.exe /K \"
c:\\util\\rmanDB.bat "
+btype+
"&&c:\\utl\\cleanup.bat\"")
System.Runtime.getRuntime().exec(cmd);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
String home = System.getProperty("APPHOME");
String cmd = home + INITCMD;
java.lang.Runtime.getRuntime().exec(cmd);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char cat[] = "cat ";
char \*command;
size\_t commandLength;
commandLength = strlen(cat) + strlen(argv[1]) + 1;
command = (char \*) malloc(commandLength);
strncpy(command, cat, commandLength);
strncat(command, argv[1], (commandLength - strlen(cat)) );3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/77.html 3/5Used normally , the output is simply the contents of the file requested:
However , if we add a semicolon and another command to the end of this line, the command is executed by catW rapper with no
complaint:
If catW rapper had been set to have a higher privilege level than the standard user , arbitrary commands could be executed with that
higher privilege.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-36069 Python-based dependency management tool avoids OS command injection when generating Git
commands but allows injection of optional arguments with input beginning with a dash, potentially
allowing for code execution.
CVE-1999-0067 Canonical example of OS command injection. CGI program does not neutralize "|" metacharacter when
invoking a phonebook program.
CVE-2020-9054 Chain: improper input validation ( CWE-20 ) in username parameter , leading to OS command injection
(CWE-78 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2022-1509 injection of sed script syntax ("sed injection")
CVE-2021-41282 injection of sed script syntax ("sed injection")
CVE-2019-13398 injection of sed script syntax ("sed injection")
CVE-2019-12921 image program allows injection of commands in "Magick V ector Graphics (MVG)" language.
CVE-2020-11698 anti-spam product allows injection of SNMP commands into confiuration file
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
If at all possible, use library calls rather than external processes to recreate the desired functionality .
Phase: Implementation
If possible, ensure that all external commands called from the program are statically created.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Operation
Run time: Run time policy enforcement may be used in an allowlist fashion to prevent use of any non-sanctioned commands.
Phase: System Configuration
Assign permissions that prevent the user from accessing/opening privileged files.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Descriptionsystem(command);
return (0);
}
(informative) 
$ ./catWrapper Story.txt
When last we left our heroes...
(attack code) 
$ ./catWrapper Story.txt; ls
When last we left our heroes...
Story.txt
SensitiveFile.txt
PrivateData.db
a.out\*3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/77.html 4/5Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 713 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A2 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 727 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A6 - Injection Flaws
MemberOf 929 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1005 7PK - Input V alidation and Representation
MemberOf 1027 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A1 - Injection
MemberOf 1179 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 01. Input V alidation and Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
CWE-77 is often misused when OS command injection ( CWE-78 ) was intended instead [ REF-1287 ].
Comments:
If the weakness involves a command language besides OS shell invocation, then CWE-77 could be used.
 Notes
Terminology
The "command injection" phrase carries dif ferent meanings to dif ferent people. For some people, it refers to any type of attack that
can allow the attacker to execute commands of their own choosing, regardless of how those commands are inserted. The command
injection could thus be resultant from another weakness. This usage also includes cases in which the functionality allows the user to
specify an entire command, which is then executed; within CWE, this situation might be better regarded as an authorization problem
(since an attacker should not be able to specify arbitrary commands.)
Another common usage, which includes CWE-77 and its descendants, involves cases in which the attacker injects separators into
the command being constructed.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Command Injection
CLASP Command injection
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A2 CWE More
SpecificInjection Flaws
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A1 CWE More
SpecificUnvalidated Input
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A6 CWE More
SpecificInjection Flaws
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardIDS34-PL CWE More
SpecificDo not pass untrusted, unsanitized data to a command
interpreter
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-136 LDAP Injection
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-77: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') (4.…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/77.html 5/5CAPEC-15 Command Delimiters
CAPEC-183 IMAP/SMTP Command Injection
CAPEC-248 Command Injection
CAPEC-40 Manipulating W riteable Terminal Devices
CAPEC-43 Exploiting Multiple Input Interpretation Layers
CAPEC-75 Manipulating W riteable Configuration Files
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-140] Greg Hoglund and Gary McGraw . "Exploiting Software: How to Break Code". Addison-W esley . 2004-02-27.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 10: Command Injection."
Page 171. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1287] MITRE. "Supplemental Details - 2022 CWE Top 25". Details of Problematic Mappings. 2022-06-28.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-05-20 Anonymous External Contributor
reported typo in Terminology note
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names