3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-8: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Entity Bean Declared Remote (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/8.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-8: J2EE Misconfiguration: Entity Bean Declared Remote
Weakness ID: 8
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When an application exposes a remote interface for an entity bean, it might also expose methods that get or set the bean's data.
These methods could be leveraged to read sensitive information, or to change data in ways that violate the application's expectations,
potentially leading to other vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Declare Java beans "local" when possible. When a bean must be remotely accessible, make sure that sensitive information is
not exposed, and ensure that the application logic performs appropriate validation of any data that might be modified by an
attacker .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed ResourceAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 



EmployeeRecord
com.wombat.empl.EmployeeRecordHome
com.wombat.empl.EmployeeRecord
...

...

3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-8: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Entity Bean Declared Remote (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/8.html 2/2
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
Entity beans that expose a remote interface become part of an application's attack surface. For performance reasons, an application
should rarely use remote entity beans, so there is a good chance that a remote entity bean declaration is an error .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Misconfiguration: Unsafe Bean Declaration
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications