3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1256: Improper Restriction of Software Interfaces to Hardware Features (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1256.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1256: Improper Restriction of Software Interfaces to Hardware Features
Weakness ID: 1256
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product provides software-controllable device functionality for capabilities such as power and clock management, but it does not
properly limit functionality that can lead to modification of hardware memory or register bits, or the ability to observe physical side
channels.
 Extended Description
It is frequently assumed that physical attacks such as fault injection and side-channel analysis require an attacker to have physical
access to the target device. This assumption may be false if the device has improperly secured power management features, or
similar features. For mobile devices, minimizing power consumption is critical, but these devices run a wide variety of applications with
different performance requirements. Software-controllable mechanisms to dynamically scale device voltage and frequency and
monitor power consumption are common features in today's chipsets, but they also enable attackers to mount fault injection and side-
channel attacks without having physical access to the device.
Fault injection attacks involve strategic manipulation of bits in a device to achieve a desired ef fect such as skipping an authentication
step, elevating privileges, or altering the output of a cryptographic operation. Manipulation of the device clock and voltage supply is a
well-known technique to inject faults and is cheap to implement with physical device access. Poorly protected power management
features allow these attacks to be performed from software. Other features, such as the ability to write repeatedly to DRAM at a rapid
rate from unprivileged software, can result in bit flips in other memory locations (Rowhammer , [REF-1083 ]).
Side channel analysis requires gathering measurement traces of physical quantities such as power consumption. Modern processors
often include power metering capabilities in the hardware itself (e.g., Intel RAPL) which if not adequately protected enable attackers to
gather measurements necessary for performing side-channel attacks from software.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1206 Power , Clock, Thermal, and Reset Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignAn architect may initiate introduction of this weakness via exacting requirements for software accessible
power/clock management requirements
ImplementationAn implementer may introduce this weakness by assuming there are no consequences to unbounded
power and clock management for secure components from untrusted ones.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Power Management Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Clock/Counter Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1256: Improper Restriction of Software Interfaces to Hardware Features (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1256.html 2/3
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Modify Application Data; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example considers the Rowhammer problem [ REF-1083 ]. The Rowhammer issue was caused by a program in a tight loop
writing repeatedly to a location to which the program was allowed to write but causing an adjacent memory location value to change.
Preventing the loop required to defeat the Rowhammer exploit is not always possible:
While the redesign may be possible for new devices, a redesign is not possible in existing devices. There is also the possibility that
reducing capacitance with a relayout would impact the density of the device resulting in a less capable, more costly device.
Example 2
Suppose a hardware design implements a set of software-accessible registers for scaling clock frequency and voltage but does not
control access to these registers. Attackers may cause register and memory changes and race conditions by changing the clock or
voltage of the device under their control.
Example 3
Consider the following SoC design. Security-critical settings for scaling clock frequency and voltage are available in a range of
registers bounded by [PRIV\_END\_ADDR : PRIV\_ST ART\_ADDR] in the tmcu.csr module in the HW Root of Trust. These values are
writable based on the lock\_bit register in the same module. The lock\_bit is only writable by privileged software running on the tmcu.
We assume that untrusted software running on any of the Core{0-N} processors has access to the input and output ports of the
hrot\_iface. If untrusted software can clear the lock\_bit or write the clock frequency and voltage registers due to inadequate protection,
a fault injection attack could be performed.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-11157 Plundervolt: Improper conditions check in voltage settings for some Intel(R) Processors may allow a
privileged user to potentially enable escalation of privilege and/or information disclosure via local
access [ REF-1081 ].
CVE-2020-8694 PLATYPUS Attack: Insuf ficient access control in the Linux kernel driver for some Intel processors
allows information disclosure.
CVE-2020-8695 Observable discrepancy in the RAPL interface for some Intel processors allows information disclosure.
CVE-2020-12912 AMD extension to a Linux service does not require privileged access to the RAPL interface, allowing
side-channel attacks.
CVE-2015-0565 NaCl in 2015 allowed the CLFLUSH instruction, making Rowhammer attacks possible.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Ensure proper access control mechanisms protect software-controllable features altering physical operating conditions such as
clock frequency and voltage.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
Continuously writing the same value to the same address causes the value of an adjacent location to change value.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
Redesign the RAM devices to reduce inter capacitive coupling making the Rowhammer exploit impossible.3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1256: Improper Restriction of Software Interfaces to Hardware Features (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1256.html 3/3Perform a security evaluation of system-level architecture and design with software-aided physical attacks in scope.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Use custom software to change registers that control clock settings or power settings to try to bypass security locks, or
repeatedly write DRAM to try to change adjacent locations. This can be ef fective in extracting or changing data. The drawback is
that it cannot be run before manufacturing, and it may require specialized software.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Functional Areas
Power
Clock
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-624 Hardware Fault Injection
CAPEC-625 Mobile Device Fault Injection
 References
[REF-1081] Kit Murdock, David Oswald, Flavio D Garcia, Jo V an Bulck, Frank Piessens and Daniel Gruss. "Plundervolt".
.
[REF-1082] Adrian Tang, Simha Sethumadhavan and Salvatore Stolfo. "CLKSCREW : Exposing the Perils of Security-Oblivious
Energy Management". < https://www .usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity17/sec17-tang.pdf >.
[REF-1083] Yoongu Kim, Ross Daly , Jeremie Kim, Ji Hye Lee, Donghyuk Lee, Chris Wilkerson, Konrad Lai and Onur Mutlu.
"Flipping Bits in Memory Without Accessing Them: An Experimental Study of DRAM Disturbance Errors".
.
[REF-1225] Project Zero. "Exploiting the DRAM rowhammer bug to gain kernel privileges". 2015-03-09.
.
[REF-1217] Ross Anderson. "Security Engineering". 2001. < https://www .cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/musicfiles/manuscripts/SEv1.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-08
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Nicole Fern Tortuga Logic
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-07-16 Tortuga Logic
Provided Demonstrative Example for Hardware Root of Trust
2021-10-11 Anders Nordstrom, Alric Althof f Tortuga Logic
Provided detection method
2021-10-15 Nicole Fern Riscure
updated description and extended description, detection method, and observed examples
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
