3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural
Structures during T ransient Execution
Weakness ID: 1421
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A processor event may allow transient operations to access architecturally restricted data (for example, in another address space) in a
shared microarchitectural structure (for example, a CPU cache), potentially exposing the data over a covert channel.
 Extended Description
Many commodity processors have Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) features that protect software components from one another .
These features can include memory segmentation, virtual memory , privilege rings, trusted execution environments, and virtual
machines, among others. For example, virtual memory provides each process with its own address space, which prevents processes
from accessing each other's private data. Many of these features can be used to form hardware-enforced security boundaries
between software components.
Many commodity processors also share microarchitectural resources that cache (temporarily store) data, which may be confidential.
These resources may be shared across processor contexts, including across SMT threads, privilege rings, or others.
When transient operations allow access to ISA-protected data in a shared microarchitectural resource, this might violate users'
expectations of the ISA feature that is bypassed. For example, if transient operations can access a victim's private data in a shared
microarchitectural resource, then the operations' microarchitectural side ef fects may correspond to the accessed data. If an attacker
can trigger these transient operations and observe their side ef fects through a covert channel [ REF-1400 ], then the attacker may be
able to infer the victim's private data. Private data could include sensitive program data, OS/VMM data, page table data (such as
memory addresses), system configuration data (see Demonstrative Example 3), or any other data that the attacker does not have the
required privileges to access.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1420 Exposure of Sensitive Information during Transient Execution
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can be introduced during hardware architecture and design if a data path allows
architecturally restricted data to propagate to operations that execute before an older mis-prediction or
processor event (such as an exception) is caught.
ImplementationThis weakness can be introduced during system software implementation if state-sanitizing operations
are not invoked when switching from one context to another , according to the hardware vendor's
recommendations for mitigating the weakness.
System ConfigurationThis weakness can be introduced if the system has not been configured according to the hardware
vendor's recommendations for mitigating the weakness.
Architecture and DesignThis weakness can be introduced when an access control check (for example, checking page
permissions) can proceed in parallel with the access operation (for example, a load) that is being
checked. If the processor can allow the access operation to execute before the check completes, this
race condition may allow subsequent transient operations to expose sensitive information.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 2/6Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
<>Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Some processors may perform access control checks in parallel with memory read/write operations. For example, when a user-mode
program attempts to read data from memory , the processor may also need to check whether the memory address is mapped into user
space or kernel space. If the processor performs the access concurrently with the check, then the access may be able to transiently
read kernel data before the check completes. This race condition is demonstrated in the following code snippet from [ REF-1408 ], with
additional annotations:
Vulnerable processors may return kernel data from a shared microarchitectural resource in line 4, for example, from the processor's
L1 data cache. Since this vulnerability involves a race condition, the mov in line 4 may not always return kernel data (that is,
whenever the check "wins" the race), in which case this demonstration code re-attempts the access in line 6. The accessed data is
multiplied by 4KB, a common page size, to make it easier to observe via a cache covert channel after the transmission in line 7. The
use of cache covert channels to observe the side ef fects of transient execution has been described in [ REF-1408 ].
Example 2
Many commodity processors share microarchitectural fill buf fers between sibling hardware threads on simultaneous multithreaded
(SMT) processors. Fill buf fers can serve as temporary storage for data that passes to and from the processor's caches.
Microarchitectural Fill Buf fer Data Sampling (MFBDS) is a vulnerability that can allow a hardware thread to access its sibling's private
data in a shared fill buf fer. The access may be prohibited by the processor's ISA, but MFBDS can allow the access to occur during
transient execution, in particular during a faulting operation or an operation that triggers a microcode assist.
More information on MFBDS can be found in [ REF-1405 ] and [ REF-1409 ].
Example 3
Some processors may allow access to system registers (for example, system coprocessor registers or model-specific registers)
during transient execution. This scenario is depicted in the code snippet below . Under ordinary operating circumstances, code in
exception level 0 (EL0) is not permitted to access registers that are restricted to EL1, such as TTBR0\_EL1. However , on some
processors an earlier mis-prediction can cause the MRS instruction to transiently read the value in an EL1 register . In this example, a
conditional branch (line 2) can be mis-predicted as "not taken" while waiting for a slow load (line 1). This allows MRS (line 3) to
transiently read the value in the TTBR0\_EL1 register . The subsequent memory access (line 6) can allow the restricted register's value
to become observable, for example, over a cache covert channel.
Code snippet is from [ REF-1410 ]. See also [ REF-1411 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-5715 A fault may allow transient user-mode operations to access kernel data cached in the L1D, potentially
exposing the data over a covert channel.
CVE-2018-3615 A fault may allow transient non-enclave operations to access SGX enclave data cached in the L1D,
potentially exposing the data over a covert channel.
CVE-2019-1135 A TSX Asynchronous Abort may allow transient operations to access architecturally restricted data,
potentially exposing the data over a covert channel.
(bad code) Example Language: x86 Assembly 
1 ; rcx = kernel address, rbx = probe array
2 xor rax, rax # set rax to 0
3 retry:
4 mov al, byte [rcx] # attempt to read kernel memory
5 shl rax, 0xc # multiply result by page size (4KB)
6 jz retry # if the result is zero, try again
7 mov rbx, qword [rbx + rax] # transmit result over a cache covert channel
(bad code) Example Language: x86 Assembly 
1 LDR X1, [X2] ; arranged to miss in the cache
2 CBZ X1, over ; This will be taken
3 MRS X3, TTBR0\_EL1;
4 LSL X3, X3, #imm
5 AND X3, X3, #0xFC0
6 LDR X5, [X6,X3] ; X6 is an EL0 base address
7 over3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 3/6
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Hardware designers may choose to engineer the processor's pipeline to prevent architecturally restricted data from being used
by operations that can execute transiently .
Effectiveness: High
Phase: Architecture and Design
Hardware designers may choose not to share microarchitectural resources that can contain sensitive data, such as fill buf fers
and store buf fers.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
This can be highly ef fective at preventing this weakness from being exposed across dif ferent SMT threads or dif ferent processor
cores. It is generally less practical to isolate these resources between dif ferent contexts (for example, user and kernel) that may
execute on the same SMT thread or processor core.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Hardware designers may choose to sanitize specific microarchitectural state (for example, store buf fers) when the processor
transitions to a dif ferent context, such as whenever a system call is invoked. Alternatively , the hardware may expose
instruction(s) that allow software to sanitize microarchitectural state according to the user or system administrator's threat model.
These mitigation approaches are similar to those that address CWE-226 ; however , sanitizing microarchitectural state may not be
the optimal or best way to mitigate this weakness on every processor design.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
Sanitizing shared state on context transitions may not be practical for all processors, especially when the amount of shared state
affected by the weakness is relatively large. Additionally , this technique may not be practical unless there is a synchronous
transition between two processor contexts that would allow the af fected resource to be sanitized. For example, this technique
alone may not suf fice to mitigate asynchronous access to a resource that is shared by two SMT threads.
Phase: Architecture and Design
The hardware designer can attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies in specific covert
channels.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique has many pitfalls. For example, InvisiSpec was an early attempt to mitigate this weakness by blocking "micro-
architectural covert and side channels through the multiprocessor data cache hierarchy due to speculative loads" [ REF-1417 ].
Commodity processors and SoCs have many covert and side channels that exist outside of the data cache hierarchy . Even
when some of these channels are blocked, others (such as execution ports [ REF-1418 ]) may allow an attacker to infer
confidential data. Mitigation strategies that attempt to prevent transient execution from causing observable discrepancies also
have other pitfalls, for example, see [ REF-1419 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
Software architects may design software to enforce strong isolation between dif ferent contexts. For example, kernel page table
isolation (KPTI) mitigates the Meltdown vulnerability [ REF-1401 ] by separating user-mode page tables from kernel-mode page
tables, which prevents user-mode processes from using Meltdown to transiently access kernel memory [ REF-1404 ].
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Isolating dif ferent contexts across a process boundary (or another kind of architectural boundary) may only be ef fective for some
weaknesses.
Phase: Build and Compilation
If the weakness is exposed by a single instruction (or a small set of instructions), then the compiler (or JIT , etc.) can be
configured to prevent the af fected instruction(s) from being generated, and instead generate an alternate sequence of
instructions that is not af fected by the weakness.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique may only be fully ef fective if it is applied to all software that runs on the system. Also, relatively few observed
examples of this weakness have exposed data through only a single instruction.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Use software techniques (including the use of serialization instructions) that are intended to reduce the number of instructions
that can be executed transiently after a processor event or misprediction.
Effectiveness: Incidental
Note:
Some transient execution weaknesses can be exploited even if a single instruction is executed transiently after a processor
event or mis-prediction. This mitigation strategy has many other pitfalls that prevent it from eliminating this weakness entirely .
For example, see [ REF-1389 ].3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 4/6Phase: Implementation
System software can mitigate this weakness by invoking state-sanitizing operations when switching from one context to another ,
according to the hardware vendor's recommendations.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
This technique may not be able to mitigate weaknesses that arise from resource sharing across SMT threads.
Phase: System Configuration
Some systems may allow the user to disable (for example, in the BIOS) sharing of the af fected resource.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Disabling resource sharing (for example, by disabling SMT) may result in significant performance overhead.
Phase: System Configuration
Some systems may allow the user to disable (for example, in the BIOS) microarchitectural features that allow transient access to
architecturally restricted data.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note:
Disabling microarchitectural features such as predictors may result in significant performance overhead.
Phase: Patching and Maintenance
The hardware vendor may provide a patch to sanitize the af fected shared microarchitectural state when the processor
transitions to a dif ferent context.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note:
This technique may not be able to mitigate weaknesses that arise from resource sharing across SMT threads.
Phase: Patching and Maintenance
This kind of patch may not be feasible or implementable for all processors or all weaknesses.
Effectiveness: Limited
Phase: Requirements
Processor designers, system software vendors, or other agents may choose to restrict the ability of unprivileged software to
access to high-resolution timers that are commonly used to monitor covert channels.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note:
Specific software algorithms can be used by an attacker to compensate for a lack of a high-resolution time source [ REF-1420 ].
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected in hardware by manually inspecting processor specifications. Features that exhibit this
weakness may include microarchitectural predictors, access control checks that occur out-of-order , or any other features that
can allow operations to execute without committing to architectural state. Academic researchers have demonstrated that new
hardware weaknesses can be discovered by examining publicly available patent filings, for example [ REF-1405 ] and [ REF-
1406 ]. Hardware designers can also scrutinize aspects of the instruction set architecture that have undefined behavior; these
can become a focal point when applying other detection methods.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Manual analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection
methods to improve coverage.
Automated Analysis
This weakness can be detected (pre-discovery) in hardware by employing static or dynamic taint analysis methods [ REF-1401 ].
These methods can label data in one context (for example, kernel data) and perform information flow analysis (or a simulation,
etc.) to determine whether tainted data can appear in another context (for example, user mode). Alternatively , stale or invalid
data in shared microarchitectural resources can be marked as tainted, and the taint analysis framework can identify when
transient operations encounter tainted data.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Automated static or dynamic taint analysis may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be
combined with other detection methods to improve coverage.
Automated Analysis
Software vendors can release tools that detect presence of known weaknesses (post-discovery) on a processor . For example,
some of these tools can attempt to transiently execute a vulnerable code sequence and detect whether code successfully leaks
data in a manner consistent with the weakness under test. Alternatively , some hardware vendors provide enumeration for the
presence of a weakness (or lack of a weakness). These enumeration bits can be checked and reported by system software. For
example, Linux supports these checks for many commodity processors:3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 5/6$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep bugs | head -n 1
bugs : cpu\_meltdown spectre\_v1 spectre\_v2 spec\_store\_bypass l1tf mds swapgs taa itlb\_multihit srbds mmio\_stale\_data
retbleed
Effectiveness: High
Note: This method can be useful for detecting whether a processor if af fected by known weaknesses, but it may not be useful for
detecting unknown weaknesses.
Fuzzing
Academic researchers have demonstrated that this weakness can be detected in hardware using software fuzzing tools that
treat the underlying hardware as a black box ([ REF-1406 ], [REF-1430 ])
Effectiveness: Opportunistic
Note: Fuzzing may not reveal all weaknesses in a processor specification and should be combined with other detection methods
to improve coverage.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities
Comments:
If a weakness can potentially be exploited to infer data that is accessible inside or outside the current processor context, then the
weakness could map to CWE-1421 and to another CWE such as CWE-1420 .
 References
[REF-1404] The kernel development community . "Page Table Isolation (PTI)". 2023-01-30.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1405] Stephan van Schaik, Alyssa Milburn, Sebastian Österlund, Pietro Frigo, Giorgi Maisuradze, Kaveh Razavi, Herbert
Bos and Cristiano Giuf frida. "RIDL: Rogue In-Flight Data Load". 2019-05-19. < https://mdsattacks.com/files/ridl.pdf >. URL
validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1406] Daniel Moghimi. "Downfall: Exploiting Speculative Data Gathering". 2023-08-09.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1401] Neta Bar Kama and Roope Kaivola. "Hardware Security Leak Detection by Symbolic Simulation". 2021-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1408] Moritz Lipp, Michael Schwarz, Daniel Gruss, Thomas Prescher , Werner Haas, Stefan Mangard, Paul Kocher , Daniel
Genkin, Yuval Yarom and Mike Hamburg. "Meltdown: Reading Kernel Memory from User Space". 2020-05-21.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1409] Intel Corporation. "Microarchitectural Data Sampling". 2021-03-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1410] ARM. "Cache Speculation Side-channels". 2018-01.
. URL validated: 2024-02-22 .
[REF-1411] Intel Corporation. "Rogue System Register Read/CVE-2018-3640/INTEL-SA-00115". 2018-05-01.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1400] Intel Corporation. "Refined Speculative Execution Terminology". 2022-03-11.
. URL validated: 2024-02-13 .
[REF-1389] Alyssa Milburn, Ke Sun and Henrique Kawakami. "Y ou Cannot Always Win the Race: Analyzing the LFENCE/JMP
Mitigation for Branch Target Injection". 2022-03-08. < https://arxiv .org/abs/2203.04277 >. URL validated: 2024-02-22 .
[REF-1430] Daniel Moghimi, Moritz Lipp, Berk Sunar and Michael Schwarz. "Medusa: Microarchitectural: Data Leakage via
Automated Attack Synthesis". 2020-08. < https://www .usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity20/presentation/moghimi-medusa >.
URL validated: 2024-02-27 .
[REF-1417] Mengjia Yan, Jiho Choi, Dimitrios Skarlatos, Adam Morrison, Christopher W . Fletcher and Josep Torrella. "InvisiSpec:
making speculative execution invisible in the cache hierarchy .". 2019-05. < http://iacoma.cs.uiuc.edu/iacoma-papers/micro18.pdf >.
URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1421: Exposure of Sensitive Information in Shared Microarchitectural Structures during Transie…
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1421.html 6/6[REF-1418] Alejandro Cabrera Aldaya, Billy Bob Brumley , Sohaib ul Hassan, Cesar Pereida García and Nicola Tuveri. "Port
Contention for Fun and Profit". 2019-05. < https://eprint.iacr .org/2018/1060.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1419] Mohammad Behnia, Prateek Sahu, Riccardo Paccagnella, Jiyong Yu, Zirui Zhao, Xiang Zou, Thomas Unterluggauer ,
Josep Torrellas, Carlos Rozas, Adam Morrison, Frank Mckeen, Fangfei Liu, Ron Gabor , Christopher W . Fletcher , Abhishek Basak
and Alaa Alameldeen. "Speculative Interference Attacks: Breaking Invisible Speculation Schemes". 2021-04.
. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1420] Ross Mcilroy , Jaroslav Sevcik, Tobias Tebbi, Ben L. Titzer and Toon V erwaest. "Spectre is here to stay: An analysis of
side-channels and speculative execution". 2019-02-14. < https://arxiv .org/pdf/1902.05178.pdf >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2023-09-19
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Scott D. Constable Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)David Kaplan AMD
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Rafael Dossantos, Abraham Fernandez Rubio, Alric Althof f, Lyndon Fawcett Arm
Members of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Jason Oberg Cycuity
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Priya B. Iyer Intel Corporation
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group
2024-01-22
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Nicole Fern Riscure
Member of Microarchitectural Weaknesses Working Group