3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1235: Incorrect Use of Autoboxing and Unboxing for Performance Critical Operations (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1235.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1235: Incorrect Use of Autoboxing and Unboxing for Performance Critical
Operations
Weakness ID: 1235
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses boxed primitives, which may introduce inef ficiencies into performance-critical operations.
 Extended Description
Languages such as Java and C# support automatic conversion through their respective compilers from primitive types into objects of
the corresponding wrapper classes, and vice versa. For example, a compiler might convert an int to Integer (called autoboxing) or an
Integer to int (called unboxing). This eliminates forcing the programmer to perform these conversions manually , which makes the code
cleaner .
However , this feature comes at a cost of performance and can lead to resource exhaustion and impact availability when used with
generic collections. Therefore, they should not be used for scientific computing or other performance critical operations. They are only
suited to support "impedance mismatch" between reference types and primitives.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 400 Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation The programmer may use boxed primitives when not strictly necessary .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Resource Consumption
(Other); Reduce Performance
Incorrect autoboxing/unboxing would result in reduced performance, which sometimes can lead to
resource consumption issues.Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Java has a boxed primitive for each primitive type. A long can be represented with the boxed primitive Long. Issues arise where boxed
primitives are used when not strictly necessary .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1235: Incorrect Use of Autoboxing and Unboxing for Performance Critical Operations (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1235.html 2/2In the above loop, we see that the count variable is declared as a boxed primitive. This causes autoboxing on the line that increments.
This causes execution to be magnitudes less performant (time and possibly space) than if the "long" primitive was used to declare the
count variable, which can impact availability of a resource.
Example 2
This code uses primitive long which fixes the issue.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use of boxed primitives should be limited to certain situations such as when calling methods with typed parameters. Examine
the use of boxed primitives prior to use. Use SparseArrays or ArrayMap instead of HashMap to avoid performance overhead.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaEXP04-J Do not pass arguments to certain Java Collections Framework methods
that are a dif ferent type than the collection parameter type
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-2
 References
[REF-1051] "Oracle Java Documentation". < https://docs.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/guide/language/autoboxing.html >.
[REF-1052] The Software Engineering Institute. "SEI CER T Oracle Coding Standard for Java : Rule 02. Expressions (EXP)".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-14
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Joe Harvey
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Long count = 0L;
for (long i = 0; i < Integer.MAX\_VALUE; i++) {
count += i;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
long count = 0L;
for (long i = 0; i < Integer.MAX\_VALUE; i++) {
count += i;
}