3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-590: Free of Memory not on the Heap (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/590.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-590: Free of Memory not on the Heap
Weakness ID: 590
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product calls free() on a pointer to memory that was not allocated using associated heap allocation functions such as malloc(),
calloc(), or realloc().
 Extended Description
When free() is called on an invalid pointer , the program's memory management data structures may become corrupted. This
corruption can cause the program to crash or , in some circumstances, an attacker may be able to cause free() to operate on
controllable memory locations to modify critical program variables or execute code.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 762 Mismatched Memory Management Routines
CanPrecede 123 Write-what-where Condition
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Memory
There is the potential for arbitrary code execution with privileges of the vulnerable program via a
"write, what where" primitive. If pointers to memory which hold user information are freed, a
malicious user will be able to write 4 bytes anywhere in memory .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, an array of record\_t structs, bar , is allocated automatically on the stack as a local variable and the programmer
attempts to call free() on the array . The consequences will vary based on the implementation of free(), but it will not succeed in
deallocating the memory .
This example shows the array allocated globally , as part of the data segment of memory and the programmer attempts to call free()
on the array .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void foo(){
record\_t bar[MAX\_SIZE];
/\* do something interesting with bar \*/
...
free(bar);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
record\_t bar[MAX\_SIZE]; //Global var
void foo(){
/\* do something interesting with bar \*/
...
free(bar);
}3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-590: Free of Memory not on the Heap (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/590.html 2/3Instead, if the programmer wanted to dynamically manage the memory , malloc() or calloc() should have been used.
Additionally , you can pass global variables to free() when they are pointers to dynamically allocated memory .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Only free pointers that you have called malloc on previously . This is the recommended solution. Keep track of which pointers
point at the beginning of valid chunks and free them only once.
Phase: Implementation
Before freeing a pointer , the programmer should make sure that the pointer was previously allocated on the heap and that the
memory belongs to the programmer . Freeing an unallocated pointer will cause undefined behavior in the program.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, glibc in Linux provides protection against free of invalid pointers.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a language that provides abstractions for memory allocation and deallocation.
Phase: T esting
Use a tool that dynamically detects memory management problems, such as valgrind.
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
Memory}
(good code) 
void foo(){
record\_t \*bar = (record\_t\*)malloc(MAX\_SIZE\*sizeof(record\_t));
/\* do something interesting with bar \*/
...
free(bar);
}
(good code) 
record\_t \*bar; //Global var
void foo(){
bar = (record\_t\*)malloc(MAX\_SIZE\*sizeof(record\_t));
/\* do something interesting with bar \*/
...
free(bar);
}3/7/24, 3:04 PM CWE - CWE-590: Free of Memory not on the Heap (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/590.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 969 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Memory Release
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1172 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 51. Microsoft Windows (WIN)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
In C++, if the new operator was used to allocate the memory , it may be allocated with the malloc(), calloc() or realloc() family of
functions in the implementation. Someone aware of this behavior might choose to map this problem to CWE-590 or to its parent,
CWE-762 , depending on their perspective.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding MEM34-C Exact Only free memory allocated dynamically
CER T C Secure Coding WIN30-C Imprecise Properly pair allocation and deallocation functions
Software Fault Patterns SFP12 Faulty Memory Release
 References
[REF-480] "V algrind". < http://valgrind.org/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-12-15
(CWE Draft 5, 2006-12-15)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
