3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-378: Creation of Temporary File With Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/378.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-378: Creation of T emporary File W ith Insecure Permissions
Weakness ID: 378
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Opening temporary files without appropriate measures or controls can leave the file, its contents and any function that it impacts
vulnerable to attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 377 Insecure Temporary File
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
If the temporary file can be read by the attacker , sensitive information may be in that file which could
be revealed.
Authorization
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
If that file can be written to by the attacker , the file might be moved into a place to which the attacker
does not have access. This will allow the attacker to gain selective resource access-control
privileges.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Depending on the data stored in the temporary file, there is the potential for an attacker to gain an
additional input vector which is trusted as non-malicious. It may be possible to make arbitrary
changes to data structures, user information, or even process ownership.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code examples a temporary file is created and written to. After using the temporary file, the file is closed and deleted
from the file system.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
FILE \*stream;
if( (stream = tmpfile()) == NULL ) {
perror("Could not open new temporary file\n");
return (-1);
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-378: Creation of Temporary File With Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/378.html 2/3However , within this C/C++ code the method tmpfile() is used to create and open the temp file. The tmpfile() method works the same
way as the fopen() method would with read/write permission, allowing attackers to read potentially sensitive information contained in
the temp file or modify the contents of the file.
Similarly , the createT empFile() method used in the Java code creates a temp file that may be readable and writable to all users.
Additionally both methods used above place the file into a default directory . On UNIX systems the default directory is usually "/tmp" or
"/var/tmp" and on Windows systems the default directory is usually "C:\\Windows\\T emp", which may be easily accessible to attackers,
possibly enabling them to read and modify the contents of the temp file.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-24823 A network application framework uses the Java function createT empFile(), which will create a file that is
readable by other local users of the system
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Many contemporary languages have functions which properly handle this condition. Older C temp file functions are especially
susceptible.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that you use proper file permissions. This can be achieved by using a safe temp file function. Temporary files should be
writable and readable only by the process that owns the file.
Phase: Implementation
Randomize temporary file names. This can also be achieved by using a safe temp-file function. This will ensure that temporary
files will not be created in predictable places.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 964 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposure Temporary File
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Improper temp file opening
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
}
// write data to tmp file
...
// remove tmp file
rmtmp();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
File temp = File.createTempFile("pattern", ".suffix");
temp.deleteOnExit();
BufferedWriter out = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter(temp));
out.write("aString");
out.close();
}
catch (IOException e) {
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-378: Creation of Temporary File With Insecure Permissions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/378.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names