3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/41.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
Weakness ID: 41
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product is vulnerable to file system contents disclosure through path equivalence. Path equivalence involves the use of special
characters in file and directory names. The associated manipulations are intended to generate multiple names for the same object.
 Extended Description
Path equivalence is usually employed in order to circumvent access controls expressed using an incomplete set of file name or file
path representations. This is dif ferent from path traversal, wherein the manipulations are performed to generate a name for a dif ferent
object.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
ParentOf 42 Path Equivalence: 'filename.' (T railing Dot)
ParentOf 44 Path Equivalence: 'file.name' (Internal Dot)
ParentOf 46 Path Equivalence: 'filename ' (T railing Space)
ParentOf 47 Path Equivalence: ' filename' (Leading Space)
ParentOf 48 Path Equivalence: 'file name' (Internal Whitespace)
ParentOf 49 Path Equivalence: 'filename/' (T railing Slash)
ParentOf 50 Path Equivalence: '//multiple/leading/slash'
ParentOf 51 Path Equivalence: '/multiple//internal/slash'
ParentOf 52 Path Equivalence: '/multiple/trailing/slash//'
ParentOf 53 Path Equivalence: '\multiple\\internal\backslash'
ParentOf 54 Path Equivalence: 'filedir\' (T railing Backslash)
ParentOf 55 Path Equivalence: '/./' (Single Dot Directory)
ParentOf 56 Path Equivalence: 'filedir\*' (Wildcard)
ParentOf 57 Path Equivalence: 'fakedir/../realdir/filename'
ParentOf 58 Path Equivalence: Windows 8.3 Filename
PeerOf 1289 Improper V alidation of Unsafe Equivalence in Input
CanFollow 20 Improper Input V alidation
CanFollow 73 External Control of File Name or Path
CanFollow 172 Encoding Error
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker may be able to traverse the file system to unintended locations and read or overwrite
the contents of unexpected files. If the files are used for a security mechanism than an attacker may
be able to bypass the mechanism.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/41.html 2/5
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-1114 Source code disclosure using trailing dot
CVE-2002-1986 Source code disclosure using trailing dot
CVE-2004-2213 Source code disclosure using trailing dot or trailing encoding space "%20"
CVE-2005-3293 Source code disclosure using trailing dot
CVE-2004-0061 Bypass directory access restrictions using trailing dot in URL
CVE-2000-1133 Bypass directory access restrictions using trailing dot in URL
CVE-2001-1386 Bypass check for ".lnk" extension using ".lnk."
CVE-2001-0693 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2001-0778 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2001-1248 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2004-0280 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2005-0622 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2005-1656 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2002-1603 Source disclosure via trailing encoded space "%20"
CVE-2001-0054 Multi-Factor V ulnerability (MFV). directory traversal and other issues in FTP server using W eb
encodings such as "%20"; certain manipulations have unusual side ef fects.
CVE-2002-1451 Trailing space ("+" in query string) leads to source code disclosure.
CVE-2000-0293 Filenames with spaces allow arbitrary file deletion when the product does not properly quote them;
some overlap with path traversal.
CVE-2001-1567 "+" characters in query string converted to spaces before sensitive file/extension (internal space),
leading to bypass of access restrictions to the file.
CVE-2002-0253 Overlaps infoleak
CVE-2001-0446 Application server allows remote attackers to read source code for .jsp files by appending a / to the
requested URL.
CVE-2004-0334 Bypass Basic Authentication for files using trailing "/"
CVE-2001-0893 Read sensitive files with trailing "/"
CVE-2001-0892 Web server allows remote attackers to view sensitive files under the document root (such as
.htpasswd) via a GET request with a trailing /.
CVE-2004-1814 Directory traversal vulnerability in server allows remote attackers to read protected files via .. (dot dot)
sequences in an HTTP request.
CVE-2002-1483 Read files with full pathname using multiple internal slash.
CVE-1999-1456 Server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via a GET request with more than one leading /
(slash) character in the filename.
CVE-2004-0578 Server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via leading slash (//) characters in a URL request.
CVE-2002-0275 Server allows remote attackers to bypass authentication and read restricted files via an extra / (slash)
in the requested URL.
CVE-2004-1032 Product allows local users to delete arbitrary files or create arbitrary empty files via a target filename
with a large number of leading slash (/) characters.
CVE-2002-1238 Server allows remote attackers to bypass access restrictions for files via an HTTP request with a
sequence of multiple / (slash) characters such as http://www .example.com///file/.
CVE-2004-1878 Product allows remote attackers to bypass authentication, obtain sensitive information, or gain access
via a direct request to admin/user .pl preceded by // (double leading slash).
CVE-2005-1365 Server allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands via a URL with multiple leading "/"
(slash) characters and ".." sequences.
CVE-2000-1050 Access directory using multiple leading slash.
CVE-2001-1072 Bypass access restrictions via multiple leading slash, which causes a regular expression to fail.
CVE-2004-0235 Archive extracts to arbitrary files using multiple leading slash in filenames in the archive.
CVE-2002-1078 Directory listings in web server using multiple trailing slash
CVE-2004-0847 ASP.NET allows remote attackers to bypass authentication for .aspx files in restricted directories via a
request containing a (1) "\" (backslash) or (2) "%5C" (encoded backslash), aka "Path V alidation
Vulnerability ."
CVE-2000-0004 Server allows remote attackers to read source code for executable files by inserting a . (dot) into the
URL.
CVE-2002-0304 Server allows remote attackers to read password-protected files via a /./ in the HTTP request.
CVE-1999-1083 Possibly (could be a cleansing error)
CVE-2004-0815 "/./////etc" cleansed to ".///etc" then "/etc"
CVE-2002-0112 Server allows remote attackers to view password protected files via /./ in the URL.
CVE-2004-0696 List directories using desired path and "\*"
CVE-2002-0433 List files in web server using "\*.ext"
CVE-2001-1152 Proxy allows remote attackers to bypass denylist restrictions and connect to unauthorized web servers
by modifying the requested URL, including (1) a // (double slash), (2) a /SUBDIR/.. where the desired
file is in the parentdir , (3) a /./, or (4) URL-encoded characters.
CVE-2000-0191 application check access for restricted URL before canonicalization
CVE-2005-1366 CGI source disclosure using "dirname/../cgi-bin"
CVE-1999-0012 Multiple web servers allow restriction bypass using 8.3 names instead of long names
CVE-2001-0795 Source code disclosure using 8.3 file name.
CVE-2005-0471 Multi-Factor V ulnerability . Product generates temporary filenames using long filenames, which become
predictable in 8.3 format.3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/41.html 3/5
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/41.html 4/5Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Some of these manipulations could be ef fective in path traversal issues, too.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Path Equivalence
CER T C Secure Coding FIO02-C Canonicalize path names originating from untrusted sources
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-3 Using Leading 'Ghost' Character Sequences to Bypass Input Filters
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-41: Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/41.html 5/5
 Submissions
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names