3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-223: Omission of Security-relevant Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/223.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-223: Omission of Security-relevant Information
Weakness ID: 223
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not record or display information that would be important for identifying the source or nature of an attack, or
determining if an action is safe.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 221 Information Loss or Omission
ParentOf 778 Insuf ficient Logging
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1210 Audit / Logging Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
The source of an attack will be dif ficult or impossible to determine. This can allow attacks to the
system to continue without notice.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code logs suspicious multiple login attempts.
This code only logs failed login attempts when a certain limit is reached. If an attacker knows this limit, they can stop their attack from
being discovered by avoiding the limit.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function login($userName,$password){
if(authenticate($userName,$password)){
return True;
}
else{
incrementLoginAttempts($userName);
if(recentLoginAttempts($userName) > 5){
writeLog("Failed login attempt by User: " . $userName . " at " + date('r') );
}
}
}3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-223: Omission of Security-relevant Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/223.html 2/2Example 2
This code prints the contents of a file if a user has permission.
While the code logs a bad access attempt, it logs the user supplied name for the file, not the canonicalized file name. An attacker can
obscure their target by giving the script the name of a link to the file they are attempting to access. Also note this code contains a race
condition between the is\_link() and readlink() functions ( CWE-363 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1029 Login attempts are not recorded if the user disconnects before the maximum number of tries.
CVE-2002-1839 Sender's IP address not recorded in outgoing e-mail.
CVE-2000-0542 Failed authentication attempts are not recorded if later attempt succeeds.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 997 SFP Secondary Cluster: Information Loss
MemberOf 1036 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A10 - Insuf ficient Logging & Monitoring
MemberOf 1355 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A09:2021 - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Omission of Security-relevant Information
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Accountability",
Page 40. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function readFile($filename){
$user = getCurrentUser();
$realFile = $filename;
//resolve file if its a symbolic link
if(is\_link($filename)){
$realFile = readlink($filename);
}
if(fileowner($realFile) == $user){
echo file\_get\_contents($realFile);
return;
}
else{
echo 'Access denied';
writeLog($user . ' attempted to access the file '. $filename . ' on '. date('r'));
}
}