3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-172: Encoding Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/172.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-172: Encoding Error
Weakness ID: 172
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly encode or decode the data, resulting in unexpected values.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 707 Improper Neutralization
ParentOf 173 Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding
ParentOf 174 Double Decoding of the Same Data
ParentOf 175 Improper Handling of Mixed Encoding
ParentOf 176 Improper Handling of Unicode Encoding
ParentOf 177 Improper Handling of URL Encoding (Hex Encoding)
CanPrecede 22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
CanPrecede 41 Improper Resolution of Path Equivalence
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1315 Forum software improperly URL decodes the highlight parameter when extracting text to highlight,
which allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary PHP code by double-encoding the highlight value so
that special characters are inserted into the result.
CVE-2004-1939 XSS protection mechanism attempts to remove "/" that could be used to close tags, but it can be
bypassed using double encoded slashes (%252F)
CVE-2001-0709 Server allows a remote attacker to obtain source code of ASP files via a URL encoded with Unicode.
CVE-2005-2256 Hex-encoded path traversal variants - "%2e%2e", "%2e%2e%2f", "%5c%2e%2e"
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-172: Encoding Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/172.html 2/2denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
Partially overlaps path traversal and equivalence weaknesses.
Maintenance
This is more like a category than a weakness.
Maintenance
Many other types of encodings should be listed in this category .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Encoding Error
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-120 Double Encoding
CAPEC-267 Leverage Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-3 Using Leading 'Ghost' Character Sequences to Bypass Input Filters
CAPEC-52 Embedding NULL Bytes
CAPEC-53 Postfix, Null Terminate, and Backslash
CAPEC-64 Using Slashes and URL Encoding Combined to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-71 Using Unicode Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-72 URL Encoding
CAPEC-78 Using Escaped Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-80 Using UTF-8 Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
