3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-289: Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/289.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-289: Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name
Weakness ID: 289
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs authentication based on the name of a resource being accessed, or the name of the actor performing the
access, but it does not properly check all possible names for that resource or actor .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
CanFollow 46 Path Equivalence: 'filename ' (T railing Space)
CanFollow 52 Path Equivalence: '/multiple/trailing/slash//'
CanFollow 173 Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding
CanFollow 178 Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2003-0317 Protection mechanism that restricts URL access can be bypassed using URL encoding.
CVE-2004-0847 Bypass of authentication for files using "\" (backslash) or "%5C" (encoded backslash).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As anAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-289: Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/289.html 2/2example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 947 SFP Secondary Cluster: Authentication Bypass
MemberOf 1134 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 00. Input V alidation and Data
Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Overlaps equivalent encodings, canonicalization, authorization, multiple trailing slash, trailing space, mixed case, and other
equivalence issues.
Theoretical
Alternate names are useful in data driven manipulation attacks, not just for authentication.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Authentication bypass by alternate name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS01-J CWE More Specific Normalize strings before validating them
SEI CER T Oracle Coding
Standard for JavaIDS01-J CWE More Specific Normalize strings before validating them
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
