3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1395: Dependency on Vulnerable Third-Party Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1395.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1395: Dependency on V ulnerable Third-Party Component
Weakness ID: 1395
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product has a dependency on a third-party component that contains one or more known vulnerabilities.
 Extended Description
Many products are large enough or complex enough that part of their functionality uses libraries, modules, or other intellectual
property developed by third parties who are not the product creator . For example, even an entire operating system might be from a
third-party supplier in some hardware products. Whether open or closed source, these components may contain publicly known
vulnerabilities that could be exploited by adversaries to compromise the product.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 657 Violation of Secure Design Principles
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignThe product architect or designer might choose a component that is already known to contain
vulnerabilities or has a high likelihood of containing vulnerabilities in the future.
ImplementationFor reasons of compatibility or stability , developers might choose a third-party component, such as a
library , that is already known to contain vulnerabilities.
Patching and MaintenanceSince all products contain vulnerabilities, over time, a third-party component will be discovered to
have a vulnerability .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
The consequences vary widely , depending on the vulnerabilities that exist in the component; how
those vulnerabilities can be "reached" by adversaries, as the exploitation paths and attack surface
will vary depending on how the component is used; and the criticality of the privilege levels and
features for which the product relies on the component.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The "SweynT ooth" vulnerabilities in Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) software development kits (SDK) were found to af fect multiple
Bluetooth System-on-Chip (SoC) manufacturers. These SoCs were used by many products such as medical devices, Smart Home
devices, wearables, and other IoT devices. [ REF-1314 ] [REF-1315 ]
Example 2
log4j, a Java-based logging framework, is used in a large number of products, with estimates in the range of 3 billion af fected devices
[REF-1317 ]. When the "log4shell" (CVE-2021-44228) vulnerability was initially announced, it was actively exploited for remote codeAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1395: Dependency on Vulnerable Third-Party Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1395.html 2/3execution, requiring urgent mitigation in many organizations. However , it was unclear how many products were af fected, as Log4j
would sometimes be part of a long sequence of transitive dependencies. [ REF-1316 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Requirements; Policy
In some industries such as healthcare [ REF-1320 ] [REF-1322 ] or technologies such as the cloud [ REF-1321 ], it might be unclear
about who is responsible for applying patches for third-party vulnerabilities: the vendor , the operator/customer , or a separate
service. Clarifying roles and responsibilities can be important to minimize confusion or unnecessary delay when third-party
vulnerabilities are disclosed.
Phase: Requirements
Require a Bill of Materials for all components and sub-components of the product. For software, require a Software Bill of
Materials (SBOM) [ REF-1247 ] [REF-1311 ].
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; Integration; Manufacturing
Maintain a Bill of Materials for all components and sub-components of the product. For software, maintain a Software Bill of
Materials (SBOM). According to [ REF-1247 ], "An SBOM is a formal, machine-readable inventory of software components and
dependencies, information about those components, and their hierarchical relationships."
Phases: Operation; Patching and Maintenance
Actively monitor when a third-party component vendor announces vulnerability patches; fix the third-party component as soon as
possible; and make it easy for operators/customers to obtain and apply the patch.
Phases: Operation; Patching and Maintenance
Continuously monitor changes in each of the product's components, especially when the changes indicate new vulnerabilities,
end-of-life (EOL) plans, etc.
 Detection Methods
Automated Analysis
For software, use Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools, which automatically analyze products to identify third-party
dependencies. Often, SCA tools can be used to link with known vulnerabilities in the dependencies that they detect. There are
commercial and open-source alternatives, such as OW ASP Dependency-Check [ REF-1312 ]. Many languages or frameworks
have package managers with similar capabilities, such as npm audit for JavaScript, pip-audit for Python, govulncheck for Go,
and many others. Dynamic methods can detect loading of third-party components.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools face a number of technical challenges that can lead to false positives and false
negatives. Dynamic methods have other technical challenges.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 6.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-9
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SM-10
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SR-2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req DM-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req DM-3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req DM-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-1395: Dependency on Vulnerable Third-Party Component (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1395.html 3/3
 References
[REF-1313] Jef f Williams, Arshan Dabirsiaghi. "The Unfortunate Reality of Insecure Libraries". 2014. < https://owasp.org/www-
project-dependency-check/ >. URL validated: 2023-01-25 .
[REF-1212] "A06:2021 - V ulnerable and Outdated Components". OW ASP. 2021-09-24. < https://owasp.org/T op10/A06\_2021-
Vulnerable\_and\_Outdated\_Components/ >.
[REF-1247] NTIA Multistakeholder Process on Software Component Transparency Framing W orking Group. "Framing Software
Component Transparency: Establishing a Common Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)". 2021-10-21.
.
[REF-1311] Amélie Koran, W endy Nather , Stewart Scott, Sara Ann Brackett. "The Cases for Using the SBOMs W e Build". 2022-
11. < https://www .atlanticcouncil.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/AC\_SBOM\_IB\_v2-002.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-01-25 .
[REF-1312] OW ASP. "OW ASP Dependency-Check". < https://owasp.org/www-project-dependency-check/ >. URL validated: 2023-
01-25 .
[REF-1314] ICS-CER T. "ICS Alert (ICS-ALER T-20-063-01): SweynT ooth V ulnerabilities". 2020-03-04.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1315] Matheus E. Garbelini, Sudipta Chattopadhyay , Chundong W ang, Singapore University of Technology and Design.
"Unleashing Mayhem over Bluetooth Low Energy". 2020-03-04. < https://asset-group.github.io/disclosures/sweyntooth/ >. URL
validated: 2023-01-25 .
[REF-1316] CISA. "Alert (AA21-356A): Mitigating Log4Shell and Other Log4j-Related V ulnerabilities". 2021-12-22.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1317] SC Media. "What Log4Shell taught us about application security , and how to respond now". 2022-07-05.
. URL
validated: 2023-01-26 .
[REF-1320] Ali Youssef. "A Framework for a Medical Device Security Program at a Healthcare Delivery Organization". 2022-08-
08. < https://array .aami.org/content/news/framework-medical-device-security-program-healthcare-delivery-organization >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1321] Cloud Security Alliance. "Shared Responsibility Model Explained". 2020-08-26.
. URL validated: 2023-01-28 .
[REF-1322] Melissa Chase, Steven Christey Coley , Julie Connolly , Ronnie Daldos, Margie Zuk. "Medical Device Cybersecurity
Regional Incident Preparedness and Response Playbook". Section 6.1: Medical Device Procurement. 2022-11-14.
.
URL validated: 2023-01-28 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2023-01-25
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-04-18 Samreen Arshad Balochistan University of Information Technology , Engineering
and Management Sciences
Submitted a request for coverage of "Vulnerable and Outdated Components"
2023-06-29
(CWE 4.12, 2023-06-29)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-
Working GroupCWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications