3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1328: Security Version Number Mutable to Older Versions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1328.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1328: Security V ersion Number Mutable to Older V ersions
Weakness ID: 1328
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Security-version number in hardware is mutable, resulting in the ability to downgrade (roll-back) the boot firmware to vulnerable code
versions.
 Extended Description
A System-on-Chip (SoC) implements secure boot or verified boot. It might support a security version number , which prevents
downgrading the current firmware to a vulnerable version. Once downgraded to a previous version, an adversary can launch exploits
on the SoC and thus compromise the security of the SoC. These downgrade attacks are also referred to as roll-back attacks.
The security version number must be stored securely and persistently across power-on resets. A common weakness is that the
security version number is modifiable by an adversary , allowing roll-back or downgrade attacks or , under certain circumstances,
preventing upgrades (i.e. Denial-of-Service on upgrades). In both cases, the SoC is in a vulnerable state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
PeerOf 757 Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation ('Algorithm Downgrade')
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design, and can be identified later
during testing or system configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Security Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Authentication
AuthorizationTechnical Impact: Other
Impact includes roll-back or downgrade to a vulnerable version of the firmware or DoS (prevent
upgrades).High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
A new version of firmware is signed with a security version number higher than the previous version. During the firmware update
process the SoC checks for the security version number and upgrades the SoC firmware with the latest version. This security versionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1328: Security Version Number Mutable to Older Versions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1328.html 2/2number is stored in persistent memory upon successful upgrade for use across power-on resets.
In general, if the security version number is mutable, the implementation is vulnerable. A mutable security version number allows an
adversary to change the security version to a lower value to allow roll-back or to a higher value to prevent future upgrades.
The security version number should be stored in immutable hardware such as fuses, and the writes to these fuses should be highly
access-controlled with appropriate authentication and authorization protections.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
When architecting the system, security version data should be designated for storage in registers that are either read-only or
have access controls that prevent modification by an untrusted agent.
Phase: Implementation
During implementation and test, security version data should be demonstrated to be read-only and access controls should be
validated.
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Mutability of stored security version numbers and programming with older firmware images should be part of automated testing.
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
Anti-roll-back features should be reviewed as part of Architecture or Design review .
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-176 Configuration/Environment Manipulation
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-25
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
