3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-206: Observable Internal Behavioral Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/206.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-206: Observable Internal Behavioral Discrepancy
Weakness ID: 206
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs multiple behaviors that are combined to produce a single result, but the individual behaviors are observable
separately in a way that allows attackers to reveal internal state or internal decision points.
 Extended Description
Ideally , a product should provide as little information as possible to an attacker . Any hints that the attacker may be making progress
can then be used to simplify or optimize the attack. For example, in a login procedure that requires a username and password,
ultimately there is only one decision: success or failure. However , internally , two separate actions are performed: determining if the
username exists, and checking if the password is correct. If the product behaves dif ferently based on whether the username exists or
not, then the attacker only needs to concentrate on the password.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 205 Observable Behavioral Discrepancy
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-2031 File existence via infoleak monitoring whether "onerror" handler fires or not.
CVE-2005-2025 Valid groupname enumeration via behavioral infoleak (sends response if valid, doesn't respond if not).
CVE-2001-1497 Behavioral infoleak in GUI allows attackers to distinguish between alphanumeric and non-alphanumeric
characters in a password, thus reducing the search space.
CVE-2003-0190 Product immediately sends an error message when user does not exist instead of waiting until the
password is provided, allowing username enumeration.
 Potential Mitigations
Setup generic response pages for error conditions. The error page should not disclose information about the success or failure
of a sensitive operation. For instance, the login page should not confirm that the login is correct and the password incorrect. The
attacker who tries random account name may be able to guess some of them. Confirming that the account exists would make
the login page more susceptible to brute force attack.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 967 SFP Secondary Cluster: State Disclosure
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-206: Observable Internal Behavioral Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/206.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Internal behavioral inconsistency infoleak
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names