3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-287: Improper Authentication
Weakness ID: 287
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
When an actor claims to have a given identity , the product does not prove or insuf ficiently proves that the claim is correct.
 Alternate T erms
authentification: An alternate term is "authentification", which appears to be most commonly used by people from non-English-
speaking countries.
AuthN: "AuthN" is typically used as an abbreviation of "authentication" within the web application security community .
It is also distinct from "AuthZ," which is an abbreviation of "authorization." The use of "Auth" as an
abbreviation is discouraged, since it could be used for either authentication or authorization.
AuthC: "AuthC" is used as an abbreviation of "authentication," but it appears to used less frequently than "AuthN."
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
ParentOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
ParentOf 306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function
ParentOf 645 Overly Restrictive Account Lockout Mechanism
ParentOf 1390 Weak Authentication
CanFollow 613 Insuf ficient Session Expiration
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
This weakness can lead to the exposure of resources or functionality to unintended actors, possibly
providing attackers with sensitive information or even execute arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code intends to ensure that the user is already logged in. If not, the code performs authentication with the user-provided
username and password. If successful, it sets the loggedin and user cookies to "remember" that the user has already logged in.
Finally , the code performs administrator tasks if the logged-in user has the "Administrator" username, as recorded in the user cookie.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 2/6Unfortunately , this code can be bypassed. The attacker can set the cookies independently so that the code does not check the
username and password. The attacker could do this with an HTTP request containing headers such as:
By setting the loggedin cookie to "true", the attacker bypasses the entire authentication check. By using the "Administrator" value in
the user cookie, the attacker also gains privileges to administer the software.
Example 2
In January 2009, an attacker was able to gain administrator access to a Twitter server because the server did not restrict the number
of login attempts [ REF-236 ]. The attacker targeted a member of Twitter's support team and was able to successfully guess the
member's password using a brute force attack by guessing a large number of common words. After gaining access as the member of
the support staf f, the attacker used the administrator panel to gain access to 33 accounts that belonged to celebrities and politicians.
Ultimately , fake Twitter messages were sent that appeared to come from the compromised accounts.
Example 2 References:
[REF-236] Kim Zetter. "Weak Password Brings 'Happiness' to Twitter Hacker". 2009-01-09. . URL validated: 2023-04-07.
Example 3
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors did not use any authentication or used client-side authentication for critical functionality in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-35248 Chat application skips validation when Central Authentication Service (CAS) is enabled, ef fectively
removing the second factor from two-factor authentication
CVE-2022-36436 Python-based authentication proxy does not enforce password authentication during the initial
handshake, allowing the client to bypass authentication by specifying a 'None' authentication type.
CVE-2022-30034 Chain: W eb UI for a Python RPC framework does not use regex anchors to validate user login emails
(CWE-777 ), potentially allowing bypass of OAuth ( CWE-1390 ).
CVE-2022-29951 TCP-based protocol in Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) has no authentication.
CVE-2022-29952 Condition Monitor uses a protocol that does not require authentication.
CVE-2022-30313 Safety Instrumented System uses proprietary TCP protocols with no authentication.
CVE-2022-30317 Distributed Control System (DCS) uses a protocol that has no authentication.
CVE-2022-33139 SCADA system only uses client-side authentication, allowing adversaries to impersonate other users.
CVE-2021-3116 Chain: Python-based HTTP Proxy server uses the wrong boolean operators ( CWE-480 ) causing an
incorrect comparison ( CWE-697 ) that identifies an authN failure if all three conditions are met instead
of only one, allowing bypass of the proxy authentication ( CWE-1390 )(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $q = new CGI;
if ($q->cookie('loggedin') ne "true") {
if (! AuthenticateUser($q->param('username'), $q->param('password'))) {
ExitError("Error: you need to log in first");
}
else {
# Set loggedin and user cookies.
$q->cookie(
-name => 'loggedin',
-value => 'true'
);
$q->cookie(
-name => 'user',
-value => $q->param('username')
);
}
}
if ($q->cookie('user') eq "Administrator") {
DoAdministratorTasks();
}
(attack code) 
GET /cgi-bin/vulnerable.cgi HTTP/1.1
Cookie: user=Administrator
Cookie: loggedin=true
[body of request]3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 3/6CVE-2021-21972 Chain: Cloud computing virtualization platform does not require authentication for upload of a tar format
file (CWE-306 ), then uses .. path traversal sequences ( CWE-23 ) in the file to access unexpected files,
as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-37415 IT management product does not perform authentication for some REST API requests, as exploited in
the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-35033 Firmware for a WiFi router uses a hard-coded password for a BusyBox shell, allowing bypass of
authentication through the UAR T port
CVE-2020-10263 Bluetooth speaker does not require authentication for the debug functionality on the UAR T port,
allowing root shell access
CVE-2020-13927 Default setting in workflow management product allows all API requests without authentication, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-35395 Stack-based buf fer overflows in SFK for wifi chipset used for IoT/embedded devices, as exploited in the
wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2021-34523 Mail server does not properly check an access token before executing a Powershell command, as
exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-12812 Chain: user is not prompted for a second authentication factor ( CWE-287 ) when changing the case of
their username ( CWE-178 ), as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-10148 Authentication bypass by appending specific parameters and values to a URI, as exploited in the wild
per CISA KEV .
CVE-2020-0688 Mail server does not generate a unique key during installation, as exploited in the wild per CISA KEV .
CVE-2017-14623 LDAP Go package allows authentication bypass using an empty password, causing an unauthenticated
LDAP bind
CVE-2009-3421 login script for guestbook allows bypassing authentication by setting a "login\_ok" parameter to 1.
CVE-2009-2382 admin script allows authentication bypass by setting a cookie value to "LOGGEDIN".
CVE-2009-1048 VOIP product allows authentication bypass using 127.0.0.1 in the Host header .
CVE-2009-2213 product uses default "Allow" action, instead of default deny , leading to authentication bypass.
CVE-2009-2168 chain: redirect without exit ( CWE-698 ) leads to resultant authentication bypass.
CVE-2009-3107 product does not restrict access to a listening port for a critical service, allowing authentication to be
bypassed.
CVE-2009-1596 product does not properly implement a security-related configuration setting, allowing authentication
bypass.
CVE-2009-2422 authentication routine returns "nil" instead of "false" in some situations, allowing authentication bypass
using an invalid username.
CVE-2009-3232 authentication update script does not properly handle when admin does not select any authentication
modules, allowing authentication bypass.
CVE-2009-3231 use of LDAP authentication with anonymous binds causes empty password to result in successful
authentication
CVE-2005-3435 product authentication succeeds if user-provided MD5 hash matches the hash in its database; this can
be subjected to replay attacks.
CVE-2005-0408 chain: product generates predictable MD5 hashes using a constant value combined with username,
allowing authentication bypass.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use an authentication framework or library such as the OW ASP ESAPI Authentication feature.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis is useful for detecting certain types of authentication. A tool may be able to analyze related
configuration files, such as .htaccess in Apache web servers, or detect the usage of commonly-used authentication libraries.
Generally , automated static analysis tools have dif ficulty detecting custom authentication schemes. In addition, the software's
design may include some functionality that is accessible to any user and does not require an established identity; an automated
technique that detects the absence of authentication may report false positives.
Effectiveness: Limited
Manual Static Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of custom authentication mechanisms.
Effectiveness: High
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 4/6Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Authentication
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 718 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A7 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 812 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 930 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A2 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 947 SFP Secondary Cluster: Authentication Bypass
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1028 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A2 - Broken Authentication
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 5/6MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
This CWE entry might be misused when lower-level CWE entries are likely to be applicable. It is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a
Pillar).
Comments:
Consider children or descendants, beginning with CWE-1390 : Weak Authentication or CWE-306 : Missing Authentication for
Critical Function.
Suggestions:
CWE-ID Comment
CWE-1390 Weak Authentication
CWE-306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function
 Notes
Relationship
This can be resultant from SQL injection vulnerabilities and other issues.
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Authentication Error
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A7 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
WASC 1 Insuf ficient Authentication
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.2
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-114 Authentication Abuse
CAPEC-115 Authentication Bypass
CAPEC-151 Identity Spoofing
CAPEC-194 Fake the Source of Data
CAPEC-22 Exploiting Trust in Client
CAPEC-57 Utilizing REST's Trust in the System Resource to Obtain Sensitive Data
CAPEC-593 Session Hijacking
CAPEC-633 Token Impersonation
CAPEC-650 Upload a W eb Shell to a W eb Server
CAPEC-94 Adversary in the Middle (AiTM)
 References
[REF-236] Kim Zetter . "Weak Password Brings 'Happiness' to Twitter Hacker". 2009-01-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-237] OW ASP. "Top 10 2007-Broken Authentication and Session Management". 2007.
.
[REF-238] OW ASP. "Guide to Authentication". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/Guide\_to\_Authentication >.
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-287: Improper Authentication (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/287.html 6/6[REF-239] Microsoft. "Authentication". < http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa374735(VS.85).aspx >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 4, "Authentication" Page 109. 2nd Edition. Microsoft
Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names