3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1231: Improper Prevention of Lock Bit Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1231.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1231: Improper Prevention of Lock Bit Modification
Weakness ID: 1231
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a trusted lock bit for restricting access to registers, address regions, or other resources, but the product does not
prevent the value of the lock bit from being modified after it has been set.
 Extended Description
In integrated circuits and hardware intellectual property (IP) cores, device configuration controls are commonly programmed after a
device power reset by a trusted firmware or software module (e.g., BIOS/bootloader) and then locked from any further modification.
This behavior is commonly implemented using a trusted lock bit. When set, the lock bit disables writes to a protected set of registers
or address regions. Design or coding errors in the implementation of the lock bit protection feature may allow the lock bit to be
modified or cleared by software after it has been set. Attackers might be able to unlock the system and features that the bit is intended
to protect.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1199 General Circuit and Logic Design Concerns
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during implementation and identified later during Testing or System
Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory
Registers protected by lock bit can be modified even when lock is set.High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the example design below for a digital thermal sensor that detects overheating of the silicon and triggers system shutdown.
The system critical temperature limit (CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT) and thermal sensor calibration (TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB) data have
to be programmed by firmware, and then the register needs to be locked (TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Other 3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1231: Improper Prevention of Lock Bit Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1231.html 2/4In this example, note that if the system heats to critical temperature, the response of the system is controlled by the
TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN bit [1], which is not lockable. Thus, the intended security property of the critical temperature sensor cannot
be fully protected, since software can misconfigure the TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN register even after the lock bit is set to disable the
shutdown response.
Example 2
The following example code is a snippet from the register locks inside the buggy OpenPiton SoC of HACK@DAC'21 [ REF-1350 ].
Register locks help prevent SoC peripherals' registers from malicious use of resources. The registers that can potentially leak secret
data are locked by register locks.
In the vulnerable code, the reglk\_mem is used for locking information. If one of its bits toggle to 1, the corresponding peripheral's
registers will be locked. In the context of the HACK@DAC System-on-Chip (SoC), it is pertinent to note the existence of two distinct
categories of reset signals.
First, there is a global reset signal denoted as "rst\_ni," which possesses the capability to simultaneously reset all peripherals to their
respective initial states.
Second, we have peripheral-specific reset signals, such as "rst\_9," which exclusively reset individual peripherals back to their initial
states. The administration of these reset signals is the responsibility of the reset controller module.
In the buggy SoC architecture during HACK@DAC'21, a critical issue arises within the reset controller module. Specifically , the reset
controller can inadvertently transmit a peripheral reset signal to the register lock within the user privilege domain.
This unintentional action can result in the reset of the register locks, potentially exposing private data from all other peripherals,
rendering them accessible and readable.
To mitigate the issue, remove the extra reset signal rst\_9 from the register lock if condition. [ REF-1351 ]
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-6283 chip reset clears critical read/write lock permissions for RSA functionRegister Field description
CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT[31:8] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[7:0] Critical temp 0-255 Centigrade; Read-write-lock; Default 125
TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB[31:0] Thermal sensor calibration data. Slope value used to map sensor reading to degrees Centigrade.
TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK[31:1] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[0] Lock bit, locks CRITICAL\_TEMP\_LIMIT and TEMP\_SENSOR\_CALIB registers; Write-1-once; Default 0
TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN[31:2] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[1] Enable hardware shutdown on critical temperature detection; Read-write; Default 0
CURRENT\_TEMP[31:8] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[7:0] Current Temp 0-255 Centigrade; Read-only; Default 0
(good code) 
To fix this weakness, one could change the TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN field to be locked by TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK.
TEMP\_HW\_SHUTDOWN[31:2] Reserved field; Read only; Default 0
[1] Enable hardware shutdown on critical temperature detection; Read-write-Lock; Default 0
[0] Locked by TEMP\_SENSOR\_LOCK
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~jtag\_unlock && ~rst\_9))
begin
for (j=0; j < 6; j=j+1) begin
reglk\_mem[j] <= 'h0;
end
end
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~jtag\_unlock))
begin
for (j=0; j < 6; j=j+1) begin
reglk\_mem[j] <= 'h0;
end
end
...3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1231: Improper Prevention of Lock Bit Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1231.html 3/4
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; T esting
Security lock bit protections must be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Security lock programming flow and lock properties must be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
Effectiveness: High
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Set the lock bit. Power cycle the device. Attempt to clear the lock bit. If the information is changed, implement a design fix.
Retest. Also, attempt to indirectly clear the lock bit or bypass it.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1372 ICS Supply Chain: OT Counterfeit and Malicious Corruption
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-680 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Registers
 References
[REF-1350] "reglk\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/b9ecdf6068445d76d6bee692d163fededf7a9d9b/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/reglk/reglk\_wrapper .sv
#L80C1-L80C48 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1351] "fix cwe 1199 in reglk". 2023. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/commit/5928add42895b57341ae8fc1f9b8351c35aed865#dif f-
1c2b09dd092a56e5fb2be431a3849e72f f489d2ae4f4a6bb9c0ea6b7d450135aR80 >. URL validated: 2023-09-18 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-01-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-20 Narasimha Kumar V Mangipudi Lattice Semiconductor
reviewed content changes
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
provided observed example
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1231: Improper Prevention of Lock Bit Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1231.html 4/4
 Submissions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names