3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1292: Incorrect Conversion of Security Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1292.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1292: Incorrect Conversion of Security Identifiers
Weakness ID: 1292
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements a conversion mechanism to map certain bus-transaction signals to security identifiers. However , if the
conversion is incorrectly implemented, untrusted agents can gain unauthorized access to the asset.
 Extended Description
In a System-On-Chip (SoC), various integrated circuits and hardware engines generate transactions such as to access (reads/writes)
assets or perform certain actions (e.g., reset, fetch, compute, etc.). Among various types of message information, a typical transaction
is comprised of source identity (to identify the originator of the transaction) and a destination identity (to route the transaction to the
respective entity). Sometimes the transactions are qualified with a security identifier . This security identifier helps the destination agent
decide on the set of allowed actions (e.g., access an asset for read and writes).
A typical bus connects several leader and follower agents. Some follower agents implement bus protocols dif ferently from leader
agents. A protocol conversion happens at a bridge to seamlessly connect dif ferent protocols on the bus. One example is a system that
implements a leader with the Advanced High-performance Bus (AHB) protocol and a follower with the Open-Core Protocol (OCP). A
bridge AHB-to-OCP is needed to translate the transaction from one form to the other .
A common weakness that can exist in this scenario is that this conversion between protocols is implemented incorrectly , whereupon
an untrusted agent may gain unauthorized access to an asset.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1294 Insecure Security Identifier Mechanism
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design, then identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during hardware implementation, then identified later during Testing or
System Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Bus/Interface Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Quality Degradation HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1292: Incorrect Conversion of Security Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1292.html 2/2
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a system that supports AHB. Let us assume we have a follower agent that only understands OCP . To connect this follower to
the leader , a bridge is introduced, i.e., AHB to OCP .
The follower has assets to protect accesses from untrusted leaders, and it employs access controls based on policy , (e.g., AES-Key
registers for encryption or decryption). The key is 128 bits implemented as a set of four 32-bit registers. The key registers are assets,
and register AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY is defined to provide the necessary access controls.
The AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY access-policy register defines which agents with a security identifier in the transaction can access
the AES-key registers. The implemented AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY has 4 bits where each bit when "Set" allows access to the
AES-Key registers to the corresponding agent that has the security identifier . The other bits from 31 through 4 are reserved and not
used.
Register Field Description
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1 AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2 AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption Default 0x00000000
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY[31:4] Default 0x000000 [3:0] - 0x02 agent with Security Identifier "1" has access to
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 through AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_4 registers
During conversion of the AHB-to-OCP transaction, the security identifier information must be preserved and passed on to the follower
correctly .
Because of the incorrect conversion, the security identifier information is either lost or could be modified in such a way that an
untrusted leader can access the AES-Key registers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Security identifier decoders must be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Phase: Implementation
Access and programming flows must be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-29
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
In AHB-to-OCP bridge, the security identifier information conversion is done incorrectly.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The conversion of the signals from one protocol (AHB) to another (OCP) must be done while preserving the security identifier correctly.