3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1080: Source Code File with Excessive Number of Lines of Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1080.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1080: Source Code File with Excessive Number of Lines of Code
Weakness ID: 1080
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A source code file has too many lines of code.
 Extended Description
This issue makes it more dif ficult to understand and/or maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult
or time-consuming to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
While the interpretation of "too many lines of code" may vary for each product or developer , CISQ recommends a default threshold
value of 1000.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1120 Excessive Code Complexity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1226 Complexity Issues
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1130 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Maintainability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: PROHIBITED (this CWE ID must not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This entry is primarily a quality issue with no direct security implications.
Comments:
Look for weaknesses that are focused specifically on insecure behaviors that have more direct security implications.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCMM ASCMM-
MNT -8About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
PROHIBITED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1080: Source Code File with Excessive Number of Lines of Code (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1080.html 2/2
 References
[REF-960] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Maintainability Measure (ASCMM)". ASCMM-MNT -8.
2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCMM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications