3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-62: UNIX Hard Link (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/62.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-62: UNIX Hard Link
Weakness ID: 62
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, when opening a file or directory , does not suf ficiently account for when the name is associated with a hard link to a target
that is outside of the intended control sphere. This could allow an attacker to cause the product to operate on unauthorized files.
 Extended Description
Failure for a system to check for hard links can result in vulnerability to dif ferent types of attacks. For example, an attacker can
escalate their privileges if a file used by a privileged program is replaced with a hard link to a sensitive file (e.g. /etc/passwd). When
the process opens the file, the attacker can assume the privileges of that process.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Unix (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1494 Hard link attack, file overwrite; interesting because program checks against soft links
CVE-2002-0793 Hard link and possibly symbolic link following vulnerabilities in embedded operating system allow local
users to overwrite arbitrary files.
CVE-2003-0578 Server creates hard links and unlinks files as root, which allows local users to gain privileges by
deleting and overwriting arbitrary files.
CVE-1999-0783 Operating system allows local users to conduct a denial of service by creating a hard link from a device
special file to a file on an NFS file system.
CVE-2004-1603 Web hosting manager follows hard links, which allows local users to read or modify arbitrary files.
CVE-2004-1901 Package listing system allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files via a hard link attack on the
lockfiles.
CVE-2005-0342 The Finder in Mac OS X and earlier allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files and gain privileges by
creating a hard link from the .DS\_Store file to an arbitrary file.
CVE-2005-1111 Hard link race condition
CVE-2021-21272 "Zip Slip" vulnerability in Go-based Open Container Initiative (OCI) registries product allows writing
arbitrary files outside intended directory via symbolic links or hard links in a gzipped tarball.
OpenBSD chpass/chfn/chsh file content leak
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of PrivilegeAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-62: UNIX Hard Link (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/62.html 2/2Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good
compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 980 SFP Secondary Cluster: Link in Resource Name Resolution
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER UNIX hard link
CER T C Secure Coding FIO05-C Identify files using multiple file attributes
Software Fault Patterns SFP18 Link in resource name resolution
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Hard Links",
Page 518. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
