3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certiﬁcate with Host Mismatch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/297.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-297: Improper V alidation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
Weakness ID: 297
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product communicates with a host that provides a certificate, but the product does not properly ensure that the certificate is
actually associated with that host.
 Extended Description
Even if a certificate is well-formed, signed, and follows the chain of trust, it may simply be a valid certificate for a dif ferent site than the
site that the product is interacting with. If the certificate's host-specific data is not properly checked - such as the Common Name (CN)
in the Subject or the Subject Alternative Name (SAN) extension of an X.509 certificate - it may be possible for a redirection or
spoofing attack to allow a malicious host with a valid certificate to provide data, impersonating a trusted host. In order to ensure data
integrity , the certificate must be valid and it must pertain to the site that is being accessed.
Even if the product attempts to check the hostname, it is still possible to incorrectly check the hostname. For example, attackers could
create a certificate with a name that begins with a trusted name followed by a NUL byte, which could cause some string-based
comparisons to only examine the portion that contains the trusted name.
This weakness can occur even when the product uses Certificate Pinning, if the product does not verify the hostname at the time a
certificate is pinned.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 295 Improper Certificate V alidation
ChildOf 923 Improper Restriction of Communication Channel to Intended Endpoints
PeerOf 370 Missing Check for Certificate Revocation after Initial Check
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationWhen the product uses certificate pinning, the developer might not properly validate all relevant components of
the certificate before pinning the certificate. This can make it dif ficult or expensive to test after the pinning is
complete.
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
The data read from the system vouched for by the certificate may not be from the expected system.
Authentication
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Trust af forded to the system in question - based on the malicious certificate - may allow for spoofing
or redirection attacks.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certiﬁcate with Host Mismatch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/297.html 2/3Example 1
The following OpenSSL code obtains a certificate and verifies it.
Even though the "verify" step returns X509\_V\_OK, this step does not include checking the Common Name against the name of the
host. That is, there is no guarantee that the certificate is for the desired host. The SSL connection could have been established with a
malicious host that provided a valid certificate.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2012-5810 Mobile banking application does not verify hostname, leading to financial loss.
CVE-2012-5811 Mobile application for printing documents does not verify hostname, allowing attackers to read
sensitive documents.
CVE-2012-5807 Software for electronic checking does not verify hostname, leading to financial loss.
CVE-2012-3446 Cloud-support library written in Python uses incorrect regular expression when matching hostname.
CVE-2009-2408 Web browser does not correctly handle '\0' character (NUL) in Common Name, allowing spoofing of
https sites.
CVE-2012-0867 Database program truncates the Common Name during hostname verification, allowing spoofing.
CVE-2010-2074 Incorrect handling of '\0' character (NUL) in hostname verification allows spoofing.
CVE-2009-4565 Mail server's incorrect handling of '\0' character (NUL) in hostname verification allows spoofing.
CVE-2009-3767 LDAP server's incorrect handling of '\0' character (NUL) in hostname verification allows spoofing.
CVE-2012-5806 Payment processing module does not verify hostname when connecting to PayPal using PHP
fsockopen function.
CVE-2012-2993 Smartphone device does not verify hostname, allowing spoofing of mail services.
CVE-2012-5804 E-commerce module does not verify hostname when connecting to payment site.
CVE-2012-5824 Chat application does not validate hostname, leading to loss of privacy .
CVE-2012-5822 Application uses third-party library that does not validate hostname.
CVE-2012-5819 Cloud storage management application does not validate hostname.
CVE-2012-5817 Java library uses JSSE SSLSocket and SSLEngine classes, which do not verify the hostname.
CVE-2012-5784 SOAP platform does not verify the hostname.
CVE-2012-5782 PHP library for payments does not verify the hostname.
CVE-2012-5780 Merchant SDK for payments does not verify the hostname.
CVE-2003-0355 Web browser does not validate Common Name, allowing spoofing of https sites.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Fully check the hostname of the certificate and provide the user with adequate information about the nature of the problem and
how to proceed.
Phase: Implementation
If certificate pinning is being used, ensure that all relevant properties of the certificate are fully validated before the certificate is
pinned, including the hostname.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
Set up an untrusted endpoint (e.g. a server) with which the product will connect. Create a test certificate that uses an invalid
hostname but is signed by a trusted CA and provide this certificate from the untrusted endpoint. If the product performs any
operations instead of disconnecting and reporting an error , then this indicates that the hostname is not being checked and the
test certificate has been accepted.
Black Box
When Certificate Pinning is being used in a mobile application, consider using a tool such as Spinner [ REF-955 ]. This
methodology might be extensible to other technologies.(bad code) Example Language: C 
cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl);
if (cert && (SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl)==X509\_V\_OK)) {
// do secret things
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certiﬁcate with Host Mismatch (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/297.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 948 SFP Secondary Cluster: Digital Certificate
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Failure to validate host-specific certificate data
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-245] Martin Georgiev , Subodh Iyengar , Suman Jana, Rishita Anubhai, Dan Boneh and V italy Shmatikov . "The Most
Dangerous Code in the W orld: V alidating SSL Certificates in Non-Browser Software". 2012-10-25.
.
[REF-243] Sascha Fahl, Marian Harbach, Thomas Muders, Matthew Smith and Lars Baumgärtner , Bernd Freisleben. "Why Eve
and Mallory Love Android: An Analysis of Android SSL (In)Security". 2012-10-16. < http://www2.dcsec.uni-
hannover .de/files/android/p50-fahl.pdf >.
[REF-249] Kenneth Ballard. "Secure programming with the OpenSSL API, Part 2: Secure handshake". 2005-05-03.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-250] Eric Rescorla. "An Introduction to OpenSSL Programming (Part I)". 2001-10-05.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 23: Improper Use of PKI,
Especially SSL." Page 347. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-955] Chris McMahon Stone, Tom Chothia and Flavio D. Garcia. "Spinner: Semi-Automatic Detection of Pinning without
Hostname V erification". < http://www .cs.bham.ac.uk/~garciaf/publications/spinner .pdf>. URL validated: 2018-01-16 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
