3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-774: Allocation of File Descriptors or Handles Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/774.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-774: Allocation of File Descriptors or Handles W ithout Limits or Throttling
Weakness ID: 774
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allocates file descriptors or handles on behalf of an actor without imposing any restrictions on how many descriptors can
be allocated, in violation of the intended security policy for that actor .
 Extended Description
This can cause the product to consume all available file descriptors or handles, which can prevent other processes from performing
critical file processing operations.
 Alternate T erms
File Descriptor Exhaustion
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 770 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
When allocating resources without limits, an attacker could prevent all other processes from accessing
the same type of resource.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Operation; Architecture and Design
Strategy: Resource Limitation
Use resource-limiting settings provided by the operating system or environment. For example, when managing system
resources in POSIX, setrlimit() can be used to set limits for certain types of resources, and getrlimit() can determine how many
resources are available. However , these functions are not available on all operating systems.
When the current levels get close to the maximum that is defined for the application (see CWE-770 ), then limit the allocation of
further resources to privileged users; alternately , begin releasing resources for less-privileged users. While this mitigation may
protect the system from attack, it will not necessarily stop attackers from adversely impacting other users.
Ensure that the application performs the appropriate error checks and error handling in case resources become unavailable
(CWE-703 ).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 985 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Consumption
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-774: Allocation of File Descriptors or Handles Without Limits or Throttling (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/774.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Software Fault Patterns SFP13 Unrestricted Consumption
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 10, "Resource
Limits", Page 574. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-05-13
(CWE 1.4, 2009-05-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications