3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-690: Unchecked Return Value to NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/690.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-690: Unchecked Return V alue to NULL Pointer Dereference
Weakness ID: 690
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not check for an error after calling a function that can return with a NULL pointer if the function fails, which leads to
a resultant NULL pointer dereference.
 Chain Components
Nature Type ID Name
StartsWith 252 Unchecked Return V alue
FollowedBy 476 NULL Pointer Dereference
 Extended Description
While unchecked return value weaknesses are not limited to returns of NULL pointers (see the examples in CWE-252 ), functions
often return NULL to indicate an error status. When this error condition is not checked, a NULL pointer dereference can occur .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 252 Unchecked Return V alue
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationA typical occurrence of this weakness occurs when an application includes user-controlled input to a malloc()
call. The related code might be correct with respect to preventing buf fer overflows, but if a large value is
provided, the malloc() will fail due to insuf ficient memory . This problem also frequently occurs when a parsing
routine expects that certain elements will always be present. If malformed input is provided, the parser might
return NULL. For example, strtok() can return NULL.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Memory; Modify Memory
In rare circumstances, when NULL is equivalent to the 0x0 memory address and privileged code can
access it, then writing or reading memory is possible, which may lead to code execution.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The code below makes a call to the getUserName() function but doesn't check the return value before dereferencing (which may
cause a NullPointerException).
Example 2About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
 (Structure: Chain)
DISCOURAGED
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String username = getUserName();
if (username.equals(ADMIN\_USER)) {
...
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-690: Unchecked Return Value to NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/690.html 2/3This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
If an attacker provides an address that appears to be well-formed, but the address does not resolve to a hostname, then the call to
gethostbyaddr() will return NULL. Since the code does not check the return value from gethostbyaddr ( CWE-252 ), a NULL pointer
dereference ( CWE-476 ) would then occur in the call to strcpy().
Note that this code is also vulnerable to a buf fer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-1052 Large Content-Length value leads to NULL pointer dereference when malloc fails.
CVE-2006-6227 Large message length field leads to NULL pointer dereference when malloc fails.
CVE-2006-2555 Parsing routine encounters NULL dereference when input is missing a colon separator .
CVE-2003-1054 URI parsing API sets argument to NULL when a parsing failure occurs, such as when the Referer
header is missing a hostname, leading to NULL dereference.
CVE-2008-5183 chain: unchecked return value can lead to NULL dereference
 Detection Methods
Black Box
This typically occurs in rarely-triggered error conditions, reducing the chances of detection during black box testing.
White Box
Code analysis can require knowledge of API behaviors for library functions that might return NULL, reducing the chances of
detection when unknown libraries are used.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a named chain, which combines multiple weaknesses.
Comments:
Mapping to each separate weakness in the chain would be more precise.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding EXP34-C CWE More Specific Do not dereference null pointers
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR08-J Do not catch NullPointerException or any of its ancestors
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP32-PL CWE More Specific Do not ignore function return values
 Content History
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-690: Unchecked Return Value to NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/690.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications