3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-426: Untrusted Search Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/426.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-426: Untrusted Search Path
Weakness ID: 426
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product searches for critical resources using an externally-supplied search path that can point to resources that are not under the
product's direct control.
 Extended Description
This might allow attackers to execute their own programs, access unauthorized data files, or modify configuration in unexpected
ways. If the product uses a search path to locate critical resources such as programs, then an attacker could modify that search path
to point to a malicious program, which the targeted product would then execute. The problem extends to any type of critical resource
that the product trusts.
Some of the most common variants of untrusted search path are:
In various UNIX and Linux-based systems, the P ATH environment variable may be consulted to locate executable programs,
and LD\_PRELOAD may be used to locate a separate library .
In various Microsoft-based systems, the P ATH environment variable is consulted to locate a DLL, if the DLL is not found in
other paths that appear earlier in the search order .
 Alternate T erms
Untrusted Path
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 673 External Influence of Sphere Definition
ChildOf 642 External Control of Critical State Data
PeerOf 427 Uncontrolled Search Path Element
PeerOf 428 Unquoted Search Path or Element
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
There is the potential for arbitrary code execution with privileges of the vulnerable program.
Availability Technical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or RestartAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-426: Untrusted Search Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/426.html 2/4The program could be redirected to the wrong files, potentially triggering a crash or hang when the
targeted file is too large or does not have the expected format.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
The program could send the output of unauthorized files to the attacker .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This program is intended to execute a command that lists the contents of a restricted directory , then performs other actions. Assume
that it runs with setuid privileges in order to bypass the permissions check by the operating system.
This code may look harmless at first, since both the directory and the command are set to fixed values that the attacker can't control.
The attacker can only see the contents for DIR, which is the intended program behavior . Finally , the programmer is also careful to limit
the code that executes with raised privileges.
However , because the program does not modify the P ATH environment variable, the following attack would work:
Example 2
This code prints all of the running processes belonging to the current user .
If invoked by an unauthorized web user , it is providing a web page of potentially sensitive information on the underlying system, such
as command-line arguments ( CWE-497 ). This program is also potentially vulnerable to a P ATH based attack ( CWE-426 ), as an
attacker may be able to create malicious versions of the ps or grep commands. While the program does not explicitly raise privileges
to run the system commands, the PHP interpreter may by default be running with higher privileges than users.
Example 3
The following code is from a web application that allows users access to an interface through which they can update their password
on the system. In this environment, user passwords can be managed using the Network Information System (NIS), which is commonly
used on UNIX systems. When performing NIS updates, part of the process for updating passwords is to run a make command in the
/var/yp directory . Performing NIS updates requires extra privileges.
The problem here is that the program does not specify an absolute path for make and does not clean its environment prior to
executing the call to Runtime.exec(). If an attacker can modify the $P ATH variable to point to a malicious binary called make and
cause the program to be executed in their environment, then the malicious binary will be loaded instead of the one intended. Because(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define DIR "/restricted/directory"
char cmd[500];
sprintf(cmd, "ls -l %480s", DIR);
/\* Raise privileges to those needed for accessing DIR. \*/
RaisePrivileges(...);
system(cmd);
DropPrivileges(...);
...
(attack code) 
The user sets the PATH to reference a directory under the attacker's control, such as "/my/dir/".
The attacker creates a malicious program called "ls", and puts that program in /my/dir
The user executes the program.
When system() is executed, the shell consults the PATH to find the ls program
The program finds the attacker's malicious program, "/my/dir/ls". It doesn't find "/bin/ls" because PATH does not contain "/bin/".
The program executes the attacker's malicious program with the raised privileges.
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
//assume getCurrentUser() returns a username that is guaranteed to be alphanumeric (avoiding CWE-78)
$userName = getCurrentUser();
$command = 'ps aux | grep ' . $userName;
system($command);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
System.Runtime.getRuntime().exec("make");
...3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-426: Untrusted Search Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/426.html 3/4of the nature of the application, it runs with the privileges necessary to perform system operations, which means the attacker's make
will now be run with these privileges, possibly giving the attacker complete control of the system.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1120 Application relies on its P ATH environment variable to find and execute program.
CVE-2008-1810 Database application relies on its P ATH environment variable to find and execute program.
CVE-2007-2027 Chain: untrusted search path enabling resultant format string by loading malicious internationalization
messages.
CVE-2008-3485 Untrusted search path using malicious .EXE in Windows environment.
CVE-2008-2613 setuid program allows compromise using path that finds and loads a malicious library .
CVE-2008-1319 Server allows client to specify the search path, which can be modified to point to a program that the
client has uploaded.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Hard-code the search path to a set of known-safe values (such as system directories), or only allow them to be specified by the
administrator in a configuration file. Do not allow these settings to be modified by an external party . Be careful to avoid related
weaknesses such as CWE-426 and CWE-428 .
Phase: Implementation
When invoking other programs, specify those programs using fully-qualified pathnames. While this is an ef fective approach,
code that uses fully-qualified pathnames might not be portable to other systems that do not use the same pathnames. The
portability can be improved by locating the full-qualified paths in a centralized, easily-modifiable location within the source code,
and having the code refer to these paths.
Phase: Implementation
Remove or restrict all environment settings before invoking other programs. This includes the P ATH environment variable,
LD\_LIBRAR Y\_PATH, and other settings that identify the location of code libraries, and any application-specific search paths.
Phase: Implementation
Check your search path before use and remove any elements that are likely to be unsafe, such as the current working directory
or a temporary files directory .
Phase: Implementation
Use other functions that require explicit paths. Making use of any of the other readily available functions that require explicit
paths is a safe way to avoid this problem. For example, system() in C does not require a full path since the shell can take care of
it, while execl() and execv() require a full path.
 Detection Methods
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process and look for library functions and system calls that suggest when a search path is being used.
One pattern is when the program performs multiple accesses of the same file but in dif ferent directories, with repeated failures
until the proper filename is found. Library calls such as getenv() or their equivalent can be checked to see if any path-related
variables are being accessed.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
Manual Analysis
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
 Functional Areas
Program Invocation
Code Libraries3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-426: Untrusted Search Path (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/426.html 4/4
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 744 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 11 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 878 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 10 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1354 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A08:2021 - Software and Data Integrity Failures
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Untrusted Search Path
CLASP Relative path library search
CER T C Secure Coding ENV03-C Sanitize the environment when invoking external programs
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-38 Leveraging/Manipulating Configuration File Search Paths
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 10, Process
Attributes, page 603. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-176] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 8, "Canonical Representation Issues." Page 229.
1st Edition. Microsoft Press. 2001-11-13.
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". Chapter
12, "T rust Management and Input V alidation." Pages 317-320. 1st Edition. Addison-W esley . 2002.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 11, "Don't Trust the P ATH - Use Full Path Names"
Page 385. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-
9780735617223 >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
