3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1386: Insecure Operation on Windows Junction / Mount Point (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1386.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1386: Insecure Operation on W indows Junction / Mount Point
Weakness ID: 1386
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product opens a file or directory , but it does not properly prevent the name from being associated with a junction or mount point to
a destination that is outside of the intended control sphere.
 Extended Description
Depending on the intended action being performed, this could allow an attacker to cause the product to read, write, delete, or
otherwise operate on unauthorized files.
In Windows, NTFS5 allows for file system objects called reparse points. Applications can create a hard link from one directory to
another directory , called a junction point. They can also create a mapping from a directory to a drive letter , called a mount point. If a
file is used by a privileged program, but it can be replaced with a hard link to a sensitive file (e.g., AUTOEXEC.BA T), an attacker could
excalate privileges. When the process opens the file, the attacker can assume the privileges of that process, tricking the privileged
process to read, modify , or delete the sensitive file, preventing the program from accurately processing data. Note that one can also
point to registries and semaphores.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThe developer might not consider that when a program in Windows operates with dif ferent permissions than the
executing user , the use of links, mount points, and junctions might cause the program to access files or
directories that are outside of the intended storage location.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
Read arbitrary files by replacing a user-controlled folder with a mount point and additional hard links.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
Modify an arbitrary file by replacing the rollback files in installer directories, as they can have the
installer execute those rollbacks.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
Even if there is no control of contents, an arbitrary file delete or overwrite (when running as SYSTEM
or admin) can be used for a permanent system denial-of-service, e.g. by deleting a startup
configuration file that prevents the service from starting.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-26426 Privileged service allows attackers to delete unauthorized files using a directory junction, leading to
arbitrary code execution as SYSTEM.
CVE-2020-0863 By creating a mount point and hard links, an attacker can abuse a service to allow users arbitrary file
read permissions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1386: Insecure Operation on Windows Junction / Mount Point (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1386.html 2/2CVE-2019-1161 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) in anti-malware product allows deletion of files by creating a junction
(CWE-1386 ) and using hard links during the time window in which a temporary file is created and
deleted.
CVE-2014-0568 Escape from sandbox for document reader by using a mountpoint [ REF-1264 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
When designing software that will have dif ferent rights than the executer , the software should check that files that it is interacting
with are not improper hard links or mount points. One way to do this in Windows is to use the functionality embedded in the
following command: "dir /al /s /b" or , in PowerShell, use LinkT ype as a filter . In addition, some software uses authentication via
signing to ensure that the file is the correct one to use. Make checks atomic with the file action, otherwise a TOCT OU weakness
(CWE-367 ) can be introduced.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Symbolic links, hard links, junctions, and mount points can be confusing terminology , as there are dif ferences in how they operate
between UNIX-based systems and Windows, and there are interactions between them.
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 References
[REF-1262] Eran Shimony . "Follow the Link: Exploiting Symbolic Links with Ease". 2019-10-03.
.
[REF-1264] James Forshaw . "Windows 10^H^H Symbolic Link Mitigations". 2015-08-25.
.
[REF-1265] "Symbolic testing tools". < https://github.com/googleprojectzero/symboliclink-testing-tools >.
[REF-1266] Shubham Dubey . "Understanding and Exploiting Symbolic links in Windows - Symlink Attack EOP". 2020-04-16.
.
[REF-1267] Simon Zuckerbraun. "Abusing Arbitrary File Deletes to Escalate Privilege and Other Great Tricks". 2022-03-17.
.
[REF-1271] Clément Lavoillotte. "Abusing privileged file operations". 2019-03-20.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2022-06-07
(CWE 4.8, 2022-06-28)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
