3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-295: Improper Certiﬁcate Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/295.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-295: Improper Certificate V alidation
Weakness ID: 295
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not validate, or incorrectly validates, a certificate.
 Extended Description
When a certificate is invalid or malicious, it might allow an attacker to spoof a trusted entity by interfering in the communication path
between the host and client. The product might connect to a malicious host while believing it is a trusted host, or the product might be
deceived into accepting spoofed data that appears to originate from a trusted host.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 287 Improper Authentication
ParentOf 296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust
ParentOf 297 Improper V alidation of Certificate with Host Mismatch
ParentOf 298 Improper V alidation of Certificate Expiration
ParentOf 299 Improper Check for Certificate Revocation
ParentOf 599 Missing V alidation of OpenSSL Certificate
PeerOf 322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
A certificate is a token that associates an identity (principal) to a cryptographic key . Certificates can be used to check if a public key
belongs to the assumed owner .
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
ImplementationWhen the product uses certificate pinning, the developer might not properly validate all relevant
components of the certificate before pinning the certificate. This can make it dif ficult or expensive to test
after the pinning is complete.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AuthenticationTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code checks the certificate of a connected peer .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-295: Improper Certiﬁcate Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/295.html 2/5In this case, because the certificate is self-signed, there was no external authority that could prove the identity of the host. The
program could be communicating with a dif ferent system that is spoofing the host, e.g. by poisoning the DNS cache or using an
Adversary-in-the-Middle (AITM) attack to modify the traf fic from server to client.
Example 2
The following OpenSSL code obtains a certificate and verifies it.
Even though the "verify" step returns X509\_V\_OK, this step does not include checking the Common Name against the name of the
host. That is, there is no guarantee that the certificate is for the desired host. The SSL connection could have been established with a
malicious host that provided a valid certificate.
Example 3
The following OpenSSL code ensures that there is a certificate and allows the use of expired certificates.
If the call to SSL\_get\_verify\_result() returns X509\_V\_ERR\_CER T\_HAS\_EXPIRED, this means that the certificate has expired. As
time goes on, there is an increasing chance for attackers to compromise the certificate.
Example 4
The following OpenSSL code ensures that there is a certificate before continuing execution.
Because this code does not use SSL\_get\_verify\_results() to check the certificate, it could accept certificates that have been revoked
(X509\_V\_ERR\_CER T\_REVOKED). The software could be communicating with a malicious host.
Example 5
The following OpenSSL code ensures that the host has a certificate.
Note that the code does not call SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl), which ef fectively disables the validation step that checks the certificate.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-12496 A Go framework for robotics, drones, and IoT devices skips verification of root CA certificates by
default.
CVE-2014-1266 chain: incorrect "goto" in Apple SSL product bypasses certificate validation, allowing Adversary-in-the-
Middle (AITM) attack (Apple "goto fail" bug). CWE-705 (Incorrect Control Flow Scoping) -> CWE-561(bad code) Example Language: C 
if ((cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) && host)
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if ((X509\_V\_OK==foo) || X509\_V\_ERR\_SELF\_SIGNED\_CERT\_IN\_CHAIN==foo))
// certificate looks good, host can be trusted
(bad code) Example Language: C 
cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl);
if (cert && (SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl)==X509\_V\_OK)) {
// do secret things
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer(certificate(ssl)) {
foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
if ((X509\_V\_OK==foo) || (X509\_V\_ERR\_CERT\_HAS\_EXPIRED==foo))
//do stuff
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
// got a certificate, do secret things
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if (cert = SSL\_get\_peer\_certificate(ssl)) {
// got certificate, host can be trusted
//foo=SSL\_get\_verify\_result(ssl);
//if (X509\_V\_OK==foo) ...
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-295: Improper Certiﬁcate Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/295.html 3/5(Dead Code) -> CWE-295 (Improper Certificate V alidation) -> CWE-393 (Return of W rong Status
Code) -> CWE-300 (Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint).
CVE-2021-22909 Chain: router's firmware update procedure uses curl with "-k" (insecure) option that disables certificate
validation ( CWE-295 ), allowing adversary-in-the-middle (AITM) compromise with a malicious firmware
image ( CWE-494 ).
CVE-2008-4989 Verification function trusts certificate chains in which the last certificate is self-signed.
CVE-2012-5821 Web browser uses a TLS-related function incorrectly , preventing it from verifying that a server's
certificate is signed by a trusted certification authority (CA)
CVE-2009-3046 Web browser does not check if any intermediate certificates are revoked.
CVE-2011-0199 Operating system does not check Certificate Revocation List (CRL) in some cases, allowing spoofing
using a revoked certificate.
CVE-2012-5810 Mobile banking application does not verify hostname, leading to financial loss.
CVE-2012-3446 Cloud-support library written in Python uses incorrect regular expression when matching hostname.
CVE-2009-2408 Web browser does not correctly handle '\0' character (NUL) in Common Name, allowing spoofing of
https sites.
CVE-2012-2993 Smartphone device does not verify hostname, allowing spoofing of mail services.
CVE-2012-5822 Application uses third-party library that does not validate hostname.
CVE-2012-5819 Cloud storage management application does not validate hostname.
CVE-2012-5817 Java library uses JSSE SSLSocket and SSLEngine classes, which do not verify the hostname.
CVE-2010-1378 chain: incorrect calculation allows attackers to bypass certificate checks.
CVE-2005-3170 LDAP client accepts certificates even if they are not from a trusted CA.
CVE-2009-0265 chain: DNS server does not correctly check return value from the OpenSSL EVP\_V erifyFinal function
allows bypass of validation of the certificate chain.
CVE-2003-1229 chain: product checks if client is trusted when it intended to check if the server is trusted, allowing
validation of signed code.
CVE-2002-0862 Cryptographic API, as used in web browsers, mail clients, and other software, does not properly
validate Basic Constraints.
CVE-2009-1358 chain: OS package manager does not check properly check the return value, allowing bypass using a
revoked certificate.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Certificates should be carefully managed and checked to assure that data are encrypted with the intended owner's public key .
Phase: Implementation
If certificate pinning is being used, ensure that all relevant properties of the certificate are fully validated before the certificate is
pinned, including the hostname.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Man-in-the-middle attack tool3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-295: Improper Certiﬁcate Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/295.html 4/5Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1382 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Emerging Energy Technologies
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A10 CWE More Specific Insecure Configuration Management
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-459 Creating a Rogue Certification Authority Certificate
CAPEC-475 Signature Spoofing by Improper V alidation
 References
[REF-243] Sascha Fahl, Marian Harbach, Thomas Muders, Matthew Smith and Lars Baumgärtner , Bernd Freisleben. "Why Eve
and Mallory Love Android: An Analysis of Android SSL (In)Security". 2012-10-16. < http://www2.dcsec.uni-
hannover .de/files/android/p50-fahl.pdf >.
[REF-244] M. Bishop. "Computer Security: Art and Science". Addison-W esley . 2003.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-295: Improper Certiﬁcate Validation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/295.html 5/5
 Submissions
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names