3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/444.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response
Smuggling')
Weakness ID: 444
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product acts as an intermediary HTTP agent (such as a proxy or firewall) in the data flow between two entities such as a client
and server , but it does not interpret malformed HTTP requests or responses in ways that are consistent with how the messages will
be processed by those entities that are at the ultimate destination.
 Extended Description
HTTP requests or responses ("messages") can be malformed or unexpected in ways that cause web servers or clients to interpret the
messages in dif ferent ways than intermediary HTTP agents such as load balancers, reverse proxies, web caching proxies, application
firewalls, etc. For example, an adversary may be able to add duplicate or dif ferent header fields that a client or server might interpret
as one set of messages, whereas the intermediary might interpret the same sequence of bytes as a dif ferent set of messages. For
example, discrepancies can arise in how to handle duplicate headers like two Transfer-encoding (TE) or two Content-length (CL), or
the malicious HTTP message will have dif ferent headers for TE and CL.
The inconsistent parsing and interpretation of messages can allow the adversary to "smuggle" a message to the client/server without
the intermediary being aware of it.
This weakness is usually the result of the usage of outdated or incompatible HTTP protocol versions in the HTTP agents.
 Alternate T erms
HTTP Request Smuggling
HTTP Response Smuggling
HTTP Smuggling
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Non-Repudiation
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Unexpected State; Hide Activities; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker could create HTTP messages to exploit a number of weaknesses including 1) the
message can trick the web server to associate a URL with another URL's webpage and caching
the contents of the webpage (web cache poisoning attack), 2) the message can be structured to
bypass the firewall protection mechanisms and gain unauthorized access to a web application,About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/444.html 2/5and 3) the message can invoke a script or a page that returns client credentials (similar to a Cross
Site Scripting attack).
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, a malformed HTTP request is sent to a website that includes a proxy server and a web server with the intent
of poisoning the cache to associate one webpage with another malicious webpage.
When this request is sent to the proxy server , the proxy server parses the first four lines of the POST request and encounters the two
"Content-Length" headers. The proxy server ignores the first header , so it assumes the request has a body of length 54 bytes.
Therefore, it treats the data in the next three lines that contain exactly 54 bytes as the first request's body:
The proxy then parses the remaining bytes, which it treats as the client's second request:
The original request is forwarded by the proxy server to the web server . Unlike the proxy , the web server uses the first "Content-
Length" header and considers that the first POST request has no body .
Because the web server has assumed the original POST request was length 0, it parses the second request that follows, i.e. for GET
/poison.html:
Note that the "Bla:" header is treated as a regular header , so it is not parsed as a separate GET request.
The requests the web server sees are "POST /foobar .html" and "GET /poison.html", so it sends back two responses with the contents
of the "foobar .html" page and the "poison.html" page, respectively . The proxy matches these responses to the two requests it thinks
were sent by the client - "POST /foobar .html" and "GET /page\_to\_poison.html". If the response is cacheable, the proxy caches the
contents of "poison.html" under the URL "page\_to\_poison.html", and the cache is poisoned! Any client requesting
"page\_to\_poison.html" from the proxy would receive the "poison.html" page.
When a website includes both a proxy server and a web server , some protection against this type of attack can be achieved by
installing a web application firewall, or using a web server that includes a stricter HTTP parsing procedure or make all webpages non-
cacheable.
Additionally , if a web application includes a Java servlet for processing requests, the servlet can check for multiple "Content-Length"
headers and if they are found the servlet can return an error response thereby preventing the poison page to be cached, as shown(attack code) 
POST http://www.website.com/foobar.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 0
Content-Length: 54
GET /poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Bla: GET http://www.website.com/page\_to\_poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
(result) 
GET /poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Bla:
(attack code) 
GET http://www.website.com/page\_to\_poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
(attack code) 
POST http://www.website.com/foobar.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 0
Content-Length: 54 (ignored by server)
(attack code) 
GET /poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Bla: GET http://www.website.com/page\_to\_poison.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/444.html 3/5below .
Example 2
In the following example, a malformed HTTP request is sent to a website that includes a web server with a firewall with the intent of
bypassing the web server firewall to smuggle malicious code into the system.
When this request is sent to the web server , the first POST request has a content-length of 49,223 bytes, and the firewall treats the
line with 49,152 copies of "z" and the lines with an additional lines with 71 bytes as its body (49,152+71=49,223). The firewall then
continues to parse what it thinks is the second request starting with the line with the third POST request.
Note that there is no CRLF after the "Bla: " header so the POST in the line is parsed as the value of the "Bla:" header . Although the
line contains the pattern identified with a worm ("cmd.exe"), it is not blocked, since it is considered part of a header value. Therefore,
"cmd.exe" is smuggled through the firewall.
When the request is passed through the firewall the web server the first request is ignored because the web server does not find an
expected "Content-T ype: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" header , and starts parsing the second request.
This second request has a content-length of 30 bytes, which is exactly the length of the next two lines up to the space after the "Bla:"
header . And unlike the firewall, the web server processes the final POST as a separate third request and the "cmd.exe" worm is
smuggled through the firewall to the web server .
To avoid this attack a W eb server firewall product must be used that is designed to prevent this type of attack.
Example 3
The interpretation of HTTP responses can be manipulated if response headers include a space between the header name and colon,
or if HTTP 1.1 headers are sent through a proxy configured for HTTP 1.0, allowing for HTTP response smuggling. This can be
exploited in web browsers and other applications when used in combination with various proxy servers. For instance, the HTTP
response interpreted by the front-end/client HTTP agent/entity - in this case the web browser - can interpret a single response from an
adversary-compromised web server as being two responses from two dif ferent web sites. In the Example below , notice the extra
space after the Content-Length and Set-Cookie headers.(good code) Example Language: Java 
protected void processRequest(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
// Set up response writer object
...
try {
// check for multiple content length headers
Enumeration contentLengthHeaders = request.getHeaders("Content-Length");
int count = 0;
while (contentLengthHeaders.hasMoreElements()) {
count++;
}
if (count > 1) {
// output error response
}
else {
// process request
}
} catch (Exception ex) {...}
}
(attack code) 
POST /page.asp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.website.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Length: 49223
zzz...zzz ["z" x 49152]
POST /page.asp HTTP/1.0
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Length: 30
POST /page.asp HTTP/1.0
Bla: POST /page.asp?cmd.exe HTTP/1.0
Connection: Keep-Alive
(attack code) 
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 08 Aug 2016 08:12:31 GMT
Server: Apache (Unix)
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Encoding: gzip
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length : 2345
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Set-Cookie : token="Malicious Code"3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/444.html 4/5
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-24766 SSL/TLS-capable proxy allows HTTP smuggling when used in tandem with HTTP/1.0 services, due to
inconsistent interpretation and input sanitization of HTTP messages within the body of another
message
CVE-2021-37147 Chain: caching proxy server has improper input validation ( CWE-20 ) of headers, allowing HTTP
response smuggling ( CWE-444 ) using an "LF line ending"
CVE-2020-8287 Node.js platform allows request smuggling via two Transfer-Encoding headers
CVE-2006-6276 Web servers allow request smuggling via inconsistent HTTP headers.
CVE-2005-2088 HTTP server allows request smuggling with both a "T ransfer-Encoding: chunked" header and a
Content-Length header
CVE-2005-2089 HTTP server allows request smuggling with both a "T ransfer-Encoding: chunked" header and a
Content-Length header
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use a web server that employs a strict HTTP parsing procedure, such as Apache [ REF-433 ].
Phase: Implementation
Use only SSL communication.
Phase: Implementation
Terminate the client session after each request.
Phase: System Configuration
Turn all pages to non-cacheable.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1398 Comprehensive Categorization: Component Interaction
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
Request smuggling can be performed due to a multiple interpretation error , where the target is an intermediary or monitor , via a
consistency manipulation (T ransfer-Encoding and Content-Length headers).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER HTTP Request Smuggling
WASC 26 HTTP Request Smuggling
WASC 27 HTTP Response Smuggling
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-273 HTTP Response Smuggling
CAPEC-33 HTTP Request Smuggling
 References
 ... "Malicious Code"3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-444: Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request/Response Smuggling') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/444.html 5/5[REF-433] Chaim Linhart, Amit Klein, Ronen Heled and Steve Orrin. "HTTP Request Smuggling".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1273] Robert Auger . "HTTP Response Smuggling". 2011-02-01.
.
[REF-1274] Dzevad Alibegovic. "HTTP Request Smuggling: Complete Guide to Attack Types and Prevention". 2021-08-23.
.
[REF-1275] Busra Demir . "A Pentester's Guide to HTTP Request Smuggling". 2020-10-15. < https://www .cobalt.io/blog/a-
pentesters-guide-to-http-request-smuggling >.
[REF-1276] Edi Kogan and Daniel Kerman. "HTTP Desync Attacks in the Wild and How to Defend Against Them". 2019-10-29.
.
[REF-1277] James Kettle. "HTTP Desync Attacks: Request Smuggling Reborn". 2019-08-07.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1278] PortSwigger . "HTTP request smuggling". < https://portswigger .net/web-security/request-smuggling >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names