3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-65: Windows Hard Link (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/65.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-65: W indows Hard Link
Weakness ID: 65
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, when opening a file or directory , does not suf ficiently handle when the name is associated with a hard link to a target that
is outside of the intended control sphere. This could allow an attacker to cause the product to operate on unauthorized files.
 Extended Description
Failure for a system to check for hard links can result in vulnerability to dif ferent types of attacks. For example, an attacker can
escalate their privileges if a file used by a privileged program is replaced with a hard link to a sensitive file (e.g. AUTOEXEC.BA T).
When the process opens the file, the attacker can assume the privileges of that process, or prevent the program from accurately
processing data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0725 File system allows local attackers to hide file usage activities via a hard link to the target file, which
causes the link to be recorded in the audit trail instead of the target file.
CVE-2003-0844 Web server plugin allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files via a symlink attack on predictable
temporary filenames.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good
compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 980 SFP Secondary Cluster: Link in Resource Name ResolutionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-65: Windows Hard Link (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/65.html 2/2MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Windows hard link
CER T C Secure Coding FIO05-C Identify files using multiple file attributes
Software Fault Patterns SFP18 Link in resource name resolution
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "Links", Page
676. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
