3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1220: Insuﬃcient Granularity of Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1220.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1220: Insufficient Granularity of Access Control
Weakness ID: 1220
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements access controls via a policy or other feature with the intention to disable or restrict accesses (reads and/or
writes) to assets in a system from untrusted agents. However , implemented access controls lack required granularity , which renders
the control policy too broad because it allows accesses from unauthorized agents to the security-sensitive assets.
 Extended Description
Integrated circuits and hardware engines can expose accesses to assets (device configuration, keys, etc.) to trusted firmware or a
software module (commonly set by BIOS/bootloader). This access is typically access-controlled. Upon a power reset, the hardware or
system usually starts with default values in registers, and the trusted firmware (Boot firmware) configures the necessary access-
control protection.
A common weakness that can exist in such protection schemes is that access controls or policies are not granular enough. This
condition allows agents beyond trusted agents to access assets and could lead to a loss of functionality or the ability to set up the
device securely . This further results in security risks from leaked, sensitive, key material to modification of device configuration.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
ParentOf 1222 Insuf ficient Granularity of Address Regions Protected by Register Locks
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1212 Authorization Errors
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design and identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationSuch issues could be introduced during hardware implementation and identified later during Testing or
System Configuration phases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume
Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism; OtherHighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1220: Insuﬃcient Granularity of Access Control (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1220.html 2/4Availability
Access Control
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a system with a register for storing AES key for encryption or decryption. The key is 128 bits, implemented as a set of four
32-bit registers. The key registers are assets and registers, AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY and AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY , and are
defined to provide necessary access controls.
The read-policy register defines which agents can read the AES-key registers, and write-policy register defines which agents can
program or write to those registers. Each register is a 32-bit register , and it can support access control for a maximum of 32 agents.
The number of the bit when set (i.e., "1") allows respective action from an agent whose identity matches the number of the bit and, if
"0" (i.e., Clear), disallows the respective action to that corresponding agent.
In the above example, there is only one policy register that controls access to both read and write accesses to the AES-key registers,
and thus the design is not granular enough to separate read and writes access for dif ferent agents. Here, agent with identities "1" and
"2" can both read and write.
A good design should be granular enough to provide separate access controls to separate actions. Access control for reads should be
separate from writes. Below is an example of such implementation where two policy registers are defined for each of these actions.
The policy is defined such that: the AES-key registers can only be read or used by a crypto agent with identity "1" when bit #1 is set.
The AES-key registers can only be programmed by a trusted firmware with identity "2" when bit #2 is set.
Example 2
Within the AXI node interface wrapper module in the RISC-V AXI module of the HACK@DAC'19 CV A6 SoC [ REF-1346 ], an access
control mechanism is employed to regulate the access of dif ferent privileged users to peripherals.
The AXI ensures that only users with appropriate privileges can access specific peripherals. For instance, a ROM module is
accessible exclusively with Machine privilege, and AXI enforces that users attempting to read data from the ROM must possess
machine privilege; otherwise, access to the ROM is denied. The access control information and configurations are stored in a ROM.
However , in the example code above, while assigning distinct privileges to AXI manager and subordinates, both the Platform-Level
Interrupt Controller Specification (PLIC) and the Core-local Interrupt Controller (CLINT) (which are peripheral numbers 6 and 7
respectively) utilize the same access control configuration. This common configuration diminishes the granularity of the AXI access
control mechanism.
In certain situations, it might be necessary to grant higher privileges for accessing the PLIC than those required for accessing the
CLINT . Unfortunately , this dif ferentiation is overlooked, allowing an attacker to access the PLIC with lower privileges than intended.
As a consequence, unprivileged code can read and write to the PLIC even when it was not intended to do so. In the worst-case
scenario, the attacker could manipulate interrupt priorities, potentially modifying the system's behavior or availability .
To address the aforementioned vulnerability , developers must enhance the AXI access control granularity by implementing distinct
access control entries for the Platform-Level Interrupt Controller (PLIC) and the Core-local Interrupt Controller (CLINT). By doing so,(bad code) Example Language: Other 
Register Field description
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_4AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_KEY\_READ\_WRITE\_POLICY[31:0] Default 0x00000006 - meaning agent with identities "1" and "2" can both read from and write
to key registers
(good code) 
AES\_KEY\_READ\_POLICY[31:0] Default 0x00000002 - meaning only Crypto engine with identity "1" can read registers:
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3
AES\_KEY\_WRITE\_POLICY[31:0] Default 0x00000004 - meaning only trusted firmware with identity "2" can program registers:
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2, AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
for (i=0; i. URL
validated: 2023-09-18 .
[REF-1347] "axi\_node\_intf\_wrap.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/2078f2552194eda37ba87e54cbfef10f1aa41fa5/src/axi\_node/src/axi\_node\_intf\_wrap.sv#L430 >. URL
validated: 2023-09-18 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-05
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-07-16 Tortuga Logic
Provided Demonstrative Example for Hardware Root of Trust
2021-07-16 Tortuga Logic
Provided Demonstrative Example for Hardware Root of Trust
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications