3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-150: Improper Neutralization of Escape, Meta, or Control Sequences (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/150.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-150: Improper Neutralization of Escape, Meta, or Control Sequences
Weakness ID: 150
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that
could be interpreted as escape, meta, or control character sequences when they are sent to a downstream component.
 Extended Description
As data is parsed, an injected/absent/malformed delimiter may cause the process to take unexpected actions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0542 The mail program processes special "~" escape sequence even when not in interactive mode.
CVE-2000-0703 Setuid program does not filter escape sequences before calling mail program.
CVE-2002-0986 Mail function does not filter control characters from arguments, allowing mail message content to be
modified.
CVE-2003-0020 Multi-channel issue. Terminal escape sequences not filtered from log files.
CVE-2003-0083 Multi-channel issue. Terminal escape sequences not filtered from log files.
CVE-2003-0021 Terminal escape sequences not filtered by terminals when displaying files.
CVE-2003-0022 Terminal escape sequences not filtered by terminals when displaying files.
CVE-2003-0023 Terminal escape sequences not filtered by terminals when displaying files.
CVE-2003-0063 Terminal escape sequences not filtered by terminals when displaying files.
CVE-2000-0476 Terminal escape sequences not filtered by terminals when displaying files.
CVE-2001-1556 MFV. (multi-channel). Injection of control characters into log files that allow information hiding when
using raw Unix programs to read the files.
 Potential Mitigations
Developers should anticipate that escape, meta and control characters/sequences will be injected/removed/manipulated in the
input vectors of their product. Use an appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and
appropriate input is processed by the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-150: Improper Neutralization of Escape, Meta, or Control Sequences (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/150.html 2/2When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1134 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 00. Input V alidation and Data
Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Escape, Meta, or Control Character / Sequence
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS03-J Do not log unsanitized user input
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-134 Email Injection
CAPEC-41 Using Meta-characters in E-mail Headers to Inject Malicious Payloads
CAPEC-81 Web Server Logs Tampering
CAPEC-93 Log Injection-T ampering-Forging
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
