3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-611: Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/611.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-611: Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference
Weakness ID: 611
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product processes an XML document that can contain XML entities with URIs that resolve to documents outside of the intended
sphere of control, causing the product to embed incorrect documents into its output.
 Extended Description
XML documents optionally contain a Document Type Definition (DTD), which, among other features, enables the definition of XML
entities. It is possible to define an entity by providing a substitution string in the form of a URI. The XML parser can access the
contents of this URI and embed these contents back into the XML document for further processing.
By submitting an XML file that defines an external entity with a file:// URI, an attacker can cause the processing application to read the
contents of a local file. For example, a URI such as "file:///c:/winnt/win.ini" designates (in Windows) the file C:\Winnt\win.ini, or
file:///etc/passwd designates the password file in Unix-based systems. Using URIs with other schemes such as http://, the attacker
can force the application to make outgoing requests to servers that the attacker cannot reach directly , which can be used to bypass
firewall restrictions or hide the source of attacks such as port scanning.
Once the content of the URI is read, it is fed back into the application that is processing the XML. This application may echo back the
data (e.g. in an error message), thereby exposing the file contents.
 Alternate T erms
XXE: An acronym used for the term "XML eXternal Entities"
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 610 Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere
PeerOf 441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
XML (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: W eb Based (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or Directories
If the attacker is able to include a crafted DTD and a default entity resolver is enabled, the attacker
may be able to access arbitrary files on the system.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
The DTD may include arbitrary HTTP requests that the server may execute. This could lead to other
attacks leveraging the server's trust relationship with other entities.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-611: Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/611.html 2/3AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory)
The product could consume excessive CPU cycles or memory using a URI that points to a large file,
or a device that always returns data such as /dev/random. Alternately , the URI could reference a file
that contains many nested or recursive entity references to further slow down parsing.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-42745 Recruiter software allows reading arbitrary files using XXE
CVE-2005-1306 A browser control can allow remote attackers to determine the existence of files via Javascript
containing XML script.
CVE-2012-5656 XXE during SVG image conversion
CVE-2012-2239 XXE in PHP application allows reading the application's configuration file.
CVE-2012-3489 XXE in database server
CVE-2012-4399 XXE in rapid web application development framework allows reading arbitrary files.
CVE-2012-3363 XXE via XML-RPC request.
CVE-2012-0037 XXE in of fice document product using RDF .
CVE-2011-4107 XXE in web-based administration tool for database.
CVE-2010-3322 XXE in product that performs large-scale data analysis.
CVE-2009-1699 XXE in XSL stylesheet functionality in a common library used by some web browsers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration
Many XML parsers and validators can be configured to disable external entity expansion.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1030 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A4 - XML External Entities (XXE)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
CWE-918 (SSRF) and CWE-611 (XXE) are closely related, because they both involve web-related technologies and can launch
outbound requests to unexpected destinations. However , XXE can be performed client-side, or in other contexts in which the
software is not acting directly as a server , so the "Server" portion of the SSRF acronym does not necessarily apply .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-611: Improper Restriction of XML External Entity Reference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/611.html 3/3WASC 43 XML External Entities
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-221 Data Serialization External Entities Blowup
 References
[REF-496] OW ASP. "XML External Entity (XXE) Processing".
.
[REF-497] Sascha Herzog. "XML External Entity Attacks (XXE)". 2010-10-20. < https://owasp.org/www-pdf-
archive/XML\_Exteral\_Entity\_Attack.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-498] Gregory Steuck. "XXE (Xml eXternal Entity) Attack". < https://www .beyondsecurity .com/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-499] W ASC. "XML External Entities (XXE) Attack".
.
[REF-500] Bryan Sullivan. "XML Denial of Service Attacks and Defenses". 2009-09. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/november/xml-denial-of-service-attacks-and-defenses >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-501] Chris Cornutt. "Preventing XXE in PHP". < https://websec.io/2012/08/27/Preventing-XXE-in-PHP .html >. URL validated:
2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names