3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-466: Return of Pointer Value Outside of Expected Range (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/466.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-466: Return of Pointer V alue Outside of Expected Range
Weakness ID: 466
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A function can return a pointer to memory that is outside of the buf fer that the pointer is expected to reference.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
MaintenanceAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-466: Return of Pointer Value Outside of Expected Range (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/466.html 2/2This entry should have a chaining relationship with CWE-119 instead of a parent / child relationship, however the focus of this
weakness does not map cleanly to any existing entries in CWE. A new parent is being considered which covers the more generic
problem of incorrect return values. There is also an abstract relationship to weaknesses in which one component sends incorrect
messages to another component; in this case, one routine is sending an incorrect value to another .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Illegal Pointer V alue
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names