3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-7: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Missing Custom Error Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/7.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-7: J2EE Misconfiguration: Missing Custom Error Page
Weakness ID: 7
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The default error page of a web application should not display sensitive information about the product.
 Extended Description
A Web application must define a default error page for 4xx errors (e.g. 404), 5xx (e.g. 500) errors and catch java.lang.Throwable
exceptions to prevent attackers from mining information from the application container's built-in error response.
When an attacker explores a web site looking for vulnerabilities, the amount of information that the site provides is crucial to the
eventual success or failure of any attempted attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 756 Missing Custom Error Page
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
A stack trace might show the attacker a malformed SQL query string, the type of database being
used, and the version of the application container . This information enables the attacker to target
known vulnerabilities in these components.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the snippet below , an unchecked runtime exception thrown from within the try block may cause the container to display its default
error page (which may contain a full stack trace, among other things).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Handle exceptions appropriately in source code.
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration
Always define appropriate error pages. The application configuration should specify a default error page in order to guarantee
that the application will never leak error messages to an attacker . Handling standard HTTP error codes is useful and user-About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Public void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
try {
...
} catch (ApplicationSpecificException ase) {
logger.error("Caught: " + ase.toString());
}
}3/7/24, 3:08 PM CWE - CWE-7: J2EE Misconﬁguration: Missing Custom Error Page (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/7.html 2/2friendly in addition to being a good security practice, and a good configuration will also define a last-chance error handler that
catches any exception that could possibly be thrown by the application.
Phase: Implementation
Do not attempt to process an error or attempt to mask it.
Phase: Implementation
Verify return values are correct and do not supply sensitive information about the system.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms J2EE Misconfiguration: Missing Error Handling
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-65] M. Howard, D. LeBlanc and J. V iega. "19 Deadly Sins of Software Security". McGraw-Hill/Osborne. 2005-07-26.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
