3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1270: Generation of Incorrect Security Tokens (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1270.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1270: Generation of Incorrect Security T okens
Weakness ID: 1270
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements a Security Token mechanism to dif ferentiate what actions are allowed or disallowed when a transaction
originates from an entity . However , the Security Tokens generated in the system are incorrect.
 Extended Description
Systems-On-a-Chip (SoC) (Integrated circuits and hardware engines) implement Security Tokens to dif ferentiate and identify actions
originated from various agents. These actions could be "read", "write", "program", "reset", "fetch", "compute", etc. Security Tokens are
generated and assigned to every agent on the SoC that is either capable of generating an action or receiving an action from another
agent. Every agent could be assigned a unique, Security Token based on its trust level or privileges. Incorrectly generated Security
Tokens could result in the same token used for multiple agents or multiple tokens being used for the same agent. This condition could
result in a Denial-of-Service (DoS) or the execution of an action that in turn could result in privilege escalation or unintended access.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1294 Insecure Security Identifier Mechanism
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Bypass Protection Mechanism;
Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Read Memory; Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a system with a register for storing an AES key for encryption or decryption. The key is 128 bits long implemented as a set
of four 32-bit registers. The key registers are assets, and register , AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY , is defined to provide necessary
access controls. The access-policy register defines which agents, using a Security Token, may access the AES-key registers. Each bit
in this 32-bit register is used to define a Security Token. There could be a maximum of 32 Security Tokens that are allowed access to
the AES-key registers. When set (bit = "1") bit number allows action from an agent whose identity matches that bit number . If Clear
(bit = "0") the action is disallowed for the corresponding agent.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1270: Generation of Incorrect Security Tokens (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1270.html 2/2Assume the system has two agents: a Main-controller and an Aux-controller . The respective Security Tokens are "1" and "2".
Register Description Default
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1 AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2 AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption 0x00000000
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY AES key access register [31:0] 0x00000002
An agent with a Security Token "1" has access to AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 through AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 registers. As per the
above access policy , the AES-Key-access policy allows access to the AES-key registers if the security Token is "1".
Both agents have access to the AES-key registers.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Generation of Security Tokens should be reviewed for design inconsistency and common weaknesses.
Security-T oken definition and programming flow should be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-121 Exploit Non-Production Interfaces
CAPEC-633 Token Impersonation
CAPEC-681 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Hardware Security Identifiers
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-03-06
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The SoC incorrectly generates Security Token "1" for every agent. In other words, both Main-controller and Aux-controller are assigned
Security Token "1".
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The SoC should correctly generate Security Tokens, assigning "1" to the Main-controller and "2" to the Aux-controller