3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-213: Exposure of Sensitive Information Due to Incompatible Policies (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/213.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-213: Exposure of Sensitive Information Due to Incompatible Policies
Weakness ID: 213
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product's intended functionality exposes information to certain actors in accordance with the developer's security policy , but this
information is regarded as sensitive according to the intended security policies of other stakeholders such as the product's
administrator , users, or others whose information is being processed.
 Extended Description
When handling information, the developer must consider whether the information is regarded as sensitive by dif ferent stakeholders,
such as users or administrators. Each stakeholder ef fectively has its own intended security policy that the product is expected to
uphold. When a developer does not treat that information as sensitive, this can introduce a vulnerability that violates the expectations
of the product's users.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
PolicyThis can occur when the product's policy does not account for all relevant stakeholders, or when the
policies of other stakeholders are not interpreted properly .
Requirements This can occur when requirements do not explicitly account for all relevant stakeholders.
Architecture and DesignCommunications or data exchange frameworks may be chosen that exchange or provide access to
more information than strictly needed.
ImplementationThis can occur when the developer does not properly track the flow of sensitive information and how it
is exposed, e.g., via an API.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code displays some information on a web page.
The code displays a user's credit card and social security numbers, even though they aren't absolutely necessary .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-1725 Script calls phpinfo()About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JSP 
Social Security Number: <%= ssn %>Credit Card Number: <%= ccn %>3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-213: Exposure of Sensitive Information Due to Incompatible Policies (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/213.html 2/2CVE-2004-0033 Script calls phpinfo()
CVE-2003-1181 Script calls phpinfo()
CVE-2004-1422 Script calls phpinfo()
CVE-2004-1590 Script calls phpinfo()
CVE-2003-1038 Product lists DLLs and full pathnames.
CVE-2005-1205 Telnet protocol allows servers to obtain sensitive environment information from clients.
CVE-2005-0488 Telnet protocol allows servers to obtain sensitive environment information from clients.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Theoretical
In vulnerability theory terms, this covers cases in which the developer's Intended Policy allows the information to be made available,
but the information might be in violation of a Universal Policy in which the product's administrator should have control over which
information is considered sensitive and therefore should not be exposed.
Maintenance
This entry is being considered for deprecation. It overlaps many other entries related to information exposures. It might not be
essential to preserve this entry , since other key stakeholder policies are covered elsewhere, e.g. personal privacy leaks ( CWE-359 )
and system-level exposures that are important to system administrators ( CWE-497 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Intended information leak
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
