3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-783: Operator Precedence Logic Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/783.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-783: Operator Precedence Logic Error
Weakness ID: 783
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses an expression in which operator precedence causes incorrect logic to be used.
 Extended Description
While often just a bug, operator precedence logic errors can have serious consequences if they are used in security-critical code,
such as making an authentication decision.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 670 Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
MemberOf 569 Expression Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationLogic errors related to operator precedence may cause problems even during normal operation, so they are
probably discovered quickly during the testing phase. If testing is incomplete or there is a strong reliance on
manual review of the code, then these errors may not be discovered before the software is deployed.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Rarely Prevalent)
C++ (Rarely Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Rarely Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State
The consequences will vary based on the context surrounding the incorrect precedence. In a security
decision, integrity or confidentiality are the most likely results. Otherwise, a crash may occur due to
the software reaching an unexpected state.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, the method validateUser makes a call to another method to authenticate a username and password for a
user and returns a success or failure code.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define FAIL 0
#define SUCCESS 1
...
int validateUser(char \*username, char \*password) {3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-783: Operator Precedence Logic Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/783.html 2/3However , the method that authenticates the username and password is called within an if statement with incorrect operator
precedence logic. Because the comparison operator "==" has a higher precedence than the assignment operator "=", the comparison
operator will be evaluated first and if the method returns F AIL then the comparison will be true, the return variable will be set to true
and SUCCESS will be returned. This operator precedence logic error can be easily resolved by properly using parentheses within the
expression of the if statement, as shown below .
Example 2
In this example, the method calculates the return on investment for an accounting/financial application. The return on investment is
calculated by subtracting the initial investment costs from the current value and then dividing by the initial investment costs.
However , the return on investment calculation will not produce correct results because of the incorrect operator precedence logic in
the equation. The divide operator has a higher precedence than the minus operator , therefore the equation will divide the initial
investment costs by the initial investment costs which will only subtract one from the current value. Again this operator precedence
logic error can be resolved by the correct use of parentheses within the equation, as shown below .
Note that the initialInvestment variable in this example should be validated to ensure that it is greater than zero to avoid a potential
divide by zero error ( CWE-369 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-2516 Authentication module allows authentication bypass because it uses "(x = call(args) == SUCCESS)"
instead of "((x = call(args)) == SUCCESS)".
CVE-2008-0599 Chain: Language interpreter calculates wrong buf fer size ( CWE-131 ) by using "size = ptr ? X : Y"
instead of "size = (ptr ? X : Y)" expression.
CVE-2001-1155 Chain: product does not properly check the result of a reverse DNS lookup because of operator
precedence ( CWE-783 ), allowing bypass of DNS-based access restrictions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Regularly wrap sub-expressions in parentheses, especially in security-critical code.int isUser = FAIL;
// call method to authenticate username and password
// if authentication fails then return failure otherwise return success
if (isUser = AuthenticateUser(username, password) == FAIL) {
return isUser;
}
else {
isUser = SUCCESS;
}
return isUser;
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
...
if ((isUser = AuthenticateUser(username, password)) == FAIL) {
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public double calculateReturnOnInvestment(double currentValue, double initialInvestment) {
double returnROI = 0.0;
// calculate return on investment
returnROI = currentValue - initialInvestment / initialInvestment;
return returnROI;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
...
returnROI = (currentValue - initialInvestment) / initialInvestment;
...3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-783: Operator Precedence Logic Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/783.html 3/3
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 737 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1181 SEI CER T Perl Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding EXP00-C Exact Use parentheses for precedence of operation
SEI CER T Perl Coding
StandardEXP04-PL CWE More
AbstractDo not mix the early-precedence logical operators with late-
precedence logical operators
 References
[REF-704] CER T. "EXP00-C. Use parentheses for precedence of operation".
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Precedence",
Page 287. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-16
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
