3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1283: Mutable Attestation or Measurement Reporting Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1283.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1283: Mutable Attestation or Measurement Reporting Data
Weakness ID: 1283
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The register contents used for attestation or measurement reporting data to verify boot flow are modifiable by an adversary .
 Extended Description
A System-on-Chip (SoC) implements secure boot or verified boot. During this boot flow , the SoC often measures the code that it
authenticates. The measurement is usually done by calculating the one-way hash of the code binary and extending it to the previous
hash. The hashing algorithm should be a Secure One-W ay hash function. The final hash, i.e., the value obtained after the completion
of the boot flow , serves as the measurement data used in reporting or in attestation. The calculated hash is often stored in registers
that can later be read by the party of interest to determine tampering of the boot flow . A common weakness is that the contents in
these registers are modifiable by an adversary , thus spoofing the measurement.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1196 Security Flow Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues can be introduced during hardware architecture or design and can be identified later during
Testing or System Configuration phases.
ImplementationIf the access-controls which protecting the reporting registers are misconfigured during implementation,
this weakness can arise.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The SoC extends the hash and stores the results in registers. Without protection, an adversary can write their chosen hash values to
these registers. Thus, the attacker controls the reported results.
To prevent the above scenario, the registers should have one or more of the following properties:
Should be Read-Only with respect to an adversary
Cannot be extended or modifiable either directly or indirectly (using a trusted agent as proxy) by an adversary
Should have appropriate access controls or protectionsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1283: Mutable Attestation or Measurement Reporting Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1283.html 2/2
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Measurement data should be stored in registers that are read-only or otherwise have access controls that prevent modification
by an untrusted agent.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still in development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-680 Exploitation of Improperly Controlled Registers
 References
[REF-1107] Intel Corporation. "PCIe Device Measurement Requirements". 2018-09.
.
[REF-1131] John Butterworth, Cory Kallenberg and Xeno Kovah. "BIOS Chronomancy: Fixing the Core Root of Trust for
Measurement". 2013-07-31. < https://media.blackhat.com/us-13/US-13-Butterworth-BIOS-Security-Slides.pdf >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-25
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
