3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/863.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization
Weakness ID: 863
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs an authorization check when an actor attempts to access a resource or perform an action, but it does not
correctly perform the check. This allows attackers to bypass intended access restrictions.
 Extended Description
Assuming a user with a given identity , authorization is the process of determining whether that user can access a given resource,
based on the user's privileges and any permissions or other access-control specifications that apply to the resource.
When access control checks are incorrectly applied, users are able to access data or perform actions that they should not be allowed
to perform. This can lead to a wide range of problems, including information exposures, denial of service, and arbitrary code
execution.
 Alternate T erms
AuthZ: "AuthZ" is typically used as an abbreviation of "authorization" within the web application security community . It is distinct
from "AuthN" (or , sometimes, "AuthC") which is an abbreviation of "authentication." The use of "Auth" as an
abbreviation is discouraged, since it could be used for either authentication or authorization.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 285 Improper Authorization
ParentOf 551 Incorrect Behavior Order: Authorization Before Parsing and Canonicalization
ParentOf 639 Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled Key
ParentOf 647 Use of Non-Canonical URL Paths for Authorization Decisions
ParentOf 804 Guessable CAPTCHA
ParentOf 942 Permissive Cross-domain Policy with Untrusted Domains
ParentOf 1244 Internal Asset Exposed to Unsafe Debug Access Level or State
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Background Details
An access control list (ACL) represents who/what has permissions to a given object. Dif ferent operating systems implement (ACLs) in
different ways. In UNIX, there are three types of permissions: read, write, and execute. Users are divided into three classes for file
access: owner , group owner , and all other users where each class has a separate set of rights. In Windows NT , there are four basic
types of permissions for files: "No access", "Read access", "Change access", and "Full control". Windows NT extends the concept of
three types of users in UNIX to include a list of users and groups along with their associated permissions. A user can create an object
(file) and assign specified permissions to that object.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignAuthorization weaknesses may arise when a single-user application is ported to a multi-user
environment.
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
A developer may introduce authorization weaknesses because of a lack of understanding about the
underlying technologies. For example, a developer may assume that attackers cannot modify certain
inputs such as headers or cookies.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
TechnologiesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/863.html 2/5Web Server (Often Prevalent)
Database Server (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or Directories
An attacker could read sensitive data, either by reading the data directly from a data store that is not
correctly restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to read the data.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Files or Directories
An attacker could modify sensitive data, either by writing the data directly to a data store that is not
correctly restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to write the data.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker could gain privileges by modifying or reading critical data directly , or by accessing
privileged functionality .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code could be for a medical records application. It displays a record to already authenticated users, confirming the
user's authorization using a value stored in a cookie.
The programmer expects that the cookie will only be set when getRole() succeeds. The programmer even diligently specifies a 2-hour
expiration for the cookie. However , the attacker can easily set the "role" cookie to the value "Reader". As a result, the $role variable is
"Reader", and getRole() is never invoked. The attacker has bypassed the authorization system.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-39155 Chain: A microservice integration and management platform compares the hostname in the HTTP Host
header in a case-sensitive way ( CWE-178 , CWE-1289 ), allowing bypass of the authorization policy
(CWE-863 ) using a hostname with mixed case or other variations.
CVE-2019-15900 Chain: sscanf() call is used to check if a username and group exists, but the return value of sscanf()
call is not checked ( CWE-252 ), causing an uninitialized variable to be checked ( CWE-457 ), returning
success to allow authorization bypass for executing a privileged ( CWE-863 ).
CVE-2009-2213 Gateway uses default "Allow" configuration for its authorization settings.
CVE-2009-0034 Chain: product does not properly interpret a configuration option for a system group, allowing users to
gain privileges.
CVE-2008-6123 Chain: SNMP product does not properly parse a configuration option for which hosts are allowed to
connect, allowing unauthorized IP addresses to connect.
CVE-2008-7109 Chain: reliance on client-side security ( CWE-602 ) allows attackers to bypass authorization using a
custom client.
CVE-2008-3424 Chain: product does not properly handle wildcards in an authorization policy list, allowing unintended
access.
CVE-2008-4577 ACL-based protection mechanism treats negative access rights as if they are positive, allowing bypass
of intended restrictions.
CVE-2006-6679 Product relies on the X-Forwarded-For HTTP header for authorization, allowing unintended access by
spoofing the header .
CVE-2005-2801 Chain: file-system code performs an incorrect comparison ( CWE-697 ), preventing default ACLs from
being properly applied.
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$role = $\_COOKIES['role'];
if (!$role) {
$role = getRole('user');
if ($role) {
// save the cookie to send out in future responses
setcookie("role", $role, time()+60\*60\*2);
}
else{
ShowLoginScreen();
die("\n");
}
}
if ($role == 'Reader') {
DisplayMedicalHistory($\_POST['patient\_ID']);
}
else{
die("You are not Authorized to view this record\n");
}3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/863.html 3/5CVE-2001-1155 Chain: product does not properly check the result of a reverse DNS lookup because of operator
precedence ( CWE-783 ), allowing bypass of DNS-based access restrictions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Divide the product into anonymous, normal, privileged, and administrative areas. Reduce the attack surface by carefully
mapping roles with data and functionality . Use role-based access control (RBAC) [ REF-229 ] to enforce the roles at the
appropriate boundaries.
Note that this approach may not protect against horizontal authorization, i.e., it will not protect a user from attacking others with
the same role.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that access control checks are performed related to the business logic. These checks may be dif ferent than the access
control checks that are applied to more generic resources such as files, connections, processes, memory , and database
records. For example, a database may restrict access for medical records to a specific database user , but each record might
only be intended to be accessible to the patient and the patient's doctor [ REF-7 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, consider using authorization frameworks such as the JAAS Authorization Framework [ REF-233 ] and the OW ASP
ESAPI Access Control feature [ REF-45 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
For web applications, make sure that the access control mechanism is enforced correctly at the server side on every page.
Users should not be able to access any unauthorized functionality or information by simply requesting direct access to that page.
One way to do this is to ensure that all pages containing sensitive information are not cached, and that all such pages restrict
access to requests that are accompanied by an active and authenticated session token associated with a user who has the
required permissions to access that page.
Phases: System Configuration; Installation
Use the access control capabilities of your operating system and server environment and define your access control lists
accordingly . Use a "default deny" policy when defining these ACLs.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis is useful for detecting commonly-used idioms for authorization. A tool may be able to analyze related
configuration files, such as .htaccess in Apache web servers, or detect the usage of commonly-used authorization libraries.
Generally , automated static analysis tools have dif ficulty detecting custom authorization schemes. Even if they can be
customized to recognize these schemes, they might not be able to tell whether the scheme correctly performs the authorization
in a way that cannot be bypassed or subverted by an attacker .
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated dynamic analysis may not be able to find interfaces that are protected by authorization checks, even if those checks
contain weaknesses.
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of custom authorization mechanisms.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules. However , manual ef forts might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints.
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/863.html 4/5Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Forced Path Execution
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 817 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A8 - Failure to Restrict URL Access
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-863: Incorrect Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/863.html 5/5Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-1
 References
[REF-229] NIST . "Role Based Access Control and Role Based Security". < https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/role-based-access-
control >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 4, "Authorization" Page 114; Chapter 6,
"Determining Appropriate Access Control" Page 171. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-231] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 5 - Improper Access Control (Authorization)". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-03-04. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-5-improper-access-control-authorization/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-233] Rahul Bhattacharjee. "Authentication using JAAS". < https://javaranch.com/journal/2008/04/authentication-using-
JAAS.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Authorization", Page 39. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-05-24
(CWE 1.13, 2011-06-01)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
 Modifications