3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-454: External Initialization of Trusted Variables or Data Stores (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/454.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-454: External Initialization of T rusted V ariables or Data Stores
Weakness ID: 454
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product initializes critical internal variables or data stores using inputs that can be modified by untrusted actors.
 Extended Description
A product system should be reluctant to trust variables that have been initialized outside of its trust boundary , especially if they are
initialized by users. The variables may have been initialized incorrectly . If an attacker can initialize the variable, then they can
influence what the vulnerable system will do.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1419 Incorrect Initialization of Resource
CanAlsoBe 456 Missing Initialization of a V ariable
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 452 Initialization and Cleanup Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Sometimes Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
An attacker could gain access to and modify sensitive data or system information.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the Java example below , a system property controls the debug level of the application.
If an attacker is able to modify the system property , then it may be possible to coax the application into divulging sensitive information
by virtue of the fact that additional debug information is printed/exposed as the debug level increases.
Example 2
This code checks the HTTP POST request for a debug switch, and enables a debug mode if the switch is set.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int debugLevel = Integer.getInteger("com.domain.application.debugLevel").intValue();
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$debugEnabled = false;
if ($\_POST["debug"] == "true"){
$debugEnabled = true;
}3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-454: External Initialization of Trusted Variables or Data Stores (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/454.html 2/3Any user can activate the debug mode, gaining administrator privileges. An attacker may also use the information printed by the
phpinfo() function to further exploit the system. .
This example also exhibits Information Exposure Through Debug Information ( CWE-215 )
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-43468 WordPress module sets internal variables based on external inputs, allowing false reporting of the
number of views
CVE-2000-0959 Does not clear dangerous environment variables, enabling symlink attack.
CVE-2001-0033 Specify alternate configuration directory in environment variable, enabling untrusted path.
CVE-2001-0872 Dangerous environment variable not cleansed.
CVE-2001-0084 Specify arbitrary modules using environment variable.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
A product system should be reluctant to trust variables that have been initialized outside of its trust boundary . Ensure adequate
checking (e.g. input validation) is performed when relying on input from outside a trust boundary .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Avoid any external control of variables. If necessary , restrict the variables that can be modified using an allowlist, and use a
different namespace or naming convention if possible.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 994 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to V ariable
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Overlaps Missing variable initialization, especially in PHP .
Applicable Platform
This is often found in PHP due to register\_globals and the common practice of storing library/include files under the web document
root so that they are available using a direct request.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER External initialization of trusted variables or values
Software Fault Patterns SFP25 Tainted input to variable
 Content History
}
/.../
function login($username, $password){
if($debugEnabled){
echo 'Debug Activated';
phpinfo();
$isAdmin = True;
return True;
}
}3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-454: External Initialization of Trusted Variables or Data Stores (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/454.html 3/3
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names