3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-493: Critical Public Variable Without Final Modiﬁer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/493.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-493: Critical Public V ariable W ithout Final Modifier
Weakness ID: 493
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product has a critical public variable that is not final, which allows the variable to be modified to contain unexpected values.
 Extended Description
If a field is non-final and public, it can be changed once the value is set by any function that has access to the class which contains
the field. This could lead to a vulnerability if other parts of the program make assumptions about the contents of that field.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ParentOf 500 Public Static Field Not Marked Final
 Background Details
Mobile code, such as a Java Applet, is code that is transmitted across a network and executed on a remote machine. Because mobile
code developers have little if any control of the environment in which their code will execute, special security concerns become
relevant. One of the biggest environmental threats results from the risk that the mobile code will run side-by-side with other , potentially
malicious, mobile code. Because all of the popular web browsers execute code from multiple sources together in the same JVM,
many of the security guidelines for mobile code are focused on preventing manipulation of your objects' state and behavior by
adversaries who have access to the same virtual machine where your program is running. Final provides security by only allowing
non-mutable objects to be changed after being set. However , only objects which are not extended can be made final.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
The object could potentially be tampered with.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
The object could potentially allow the object to be read.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Suppose this WidgetData class is used for an e-commerce web site. The programmer attempts to prevent price-tampering attacks by
setting the price of the widget using the constructor .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public final class WidgetData extends Applet {
public float price;
...
public WidgetData(...) {
thii LkPi("MWidtT ")3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-493: Critical Public Variable Without Final Modiﬁer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/493.html 2/3The price field is not final. Even though the value is set by the constructor , it could be modified by anybody that has access to an
instance of WidgetData.
Example 2
Assume the following code is intended to provide the location of a configuration file that controls execution of the application.
While this field is readable from any function, and thus might allow an information leak of a pathname, a more serious problem is that
it can be changed by any function.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Declare all public fields as final when possible, especially if it is used to maintain internal state of an Applet or of classes used by
an Applet. If a field must be public, then perform all appropriate sanity checks before accessing the field from your code.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 485 7PK - Encapsulation
MemberOf 849 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 6 - Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 1002 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unexpected Entry Points
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Mobile Code: Non-Final Public Field
CLASP Failure to provide confidentiality for stored data
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)OBJ10-J Do not use public static nonfinal variables
Software Fault Patterns SFP28 Unexpected access points
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
this.price = LookupPrice("MyWidgetType");
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
public string configPath = "/etc/application/config.dat";
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public String configPath = new String("/etc/application/config.dat");3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-493: Critical Public Variable Without Final Modiﬁer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/493.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names