DPATCH : An Adversarial Patch Attack on Object Detectors
Xin Liu1, Huanrui Yang1, Ziwei Liu2, Linghao Song1, Hai Li1, Yiran Chen1
1Duke University,2The Chinese University of Hong Kong
1fxin.liu4, huanrui.yang, linghao.song, hai.li, yiran.chen g@duke.edu,2zwliu.hust@gmail.com
Abstract
Object detectors have emerged as an indispensable module
in modern computer vision systems. In this work, we pro-
pose DP ATCH – a black-box adversarial-patch-based attack
towards mainstream object detectors ( i.e.Faster R-CNN and
YOLO). Unlike the original adversarial patch that only ma-
nipulates image-level classiﬁer, our DP ATCH simultaneously
attacks the bounding box regression and object classiﬁcation
so as to disable their predictions. Compared to prior works,
DPATCH has several appealing properties: (1) DP ATCH can
perform both untargeted and targeted effective attacks, de-
grading the mAP of Faster R-CNN and YOLO from 75.10%
and 65.7% down to below 1%, respectively; (2) DP ATCH is
small in size and its attacking effect is location-independent,
making it very practical to implement real-world attacks; (3)
DPATCH demonstrates great transferability among different
detectors as well as training datasets. For example, DP ATCH
that is trained on Faster R-CNN can effectively attack YOLO,
and vice versa. Extensive evaluations imply that DP ATCH can
perform effective attacks under black-box setup, i.e., even
without the knowledge of the attacked network’s architec-
tures and parameters. Successful realization of DP ATCH also
illustrates the intrinsic vulnerability of the modern detector
architectures to such patch-based adversarial attacks.
Introduction
As deep learning systems achieve excellent performance
in many cognitive applications, their security and robust-
ness issues are also raised as important concerns recently.
Among them, object detector is an indispensable module in
modern computer vision systems, and widely deployed in
surveillance (Liu et al. 2015) systems and autonomous ve-
hicles (Girshick 2015). It becomes an increasing vital task
to comprehensively study their vulnerability to adversarial
attacks (Papernot et al. 2017; Liao et al. 2017).
Many existing adversarial attacks focus on learning full-
image additive noise, where the predictions of deep learning
system are manipulated by injecting small perturbations into
the input samples. Though the injected noises are small and
sometimes even invisible to human eyes, these methods need
to manipulate the whole image and become less impractical
for the real-world physical attacks.
Recently, adversarial patch (Brown et al. 2017) is intro-
duced as an practical approach of real-world attacks. The ad-
Copyright held by author(s).
Figure 1: The original adversarial patch fails to attack object
detectors. The ﬁrst row is the original image. Faster R-CNN
can detect multiple objects in the scene with a high accuracy.
The second row is the image embedded with the Google’s
adversarial patch whose targeted class is toaster . Faster R-
CNN is not inﬂuenced by the patch and can still be able to
correctly recognize all the objects.
versarial patch misleads a CNN classiﬁer to predict any ob-
ject that coupled with the pasted patch to a targeted class, re-
gardless of the object’s scale, position, and direction. The ef-
fectiveness of such adversarial attacks has been also proven
in a black-box setup where the structure and parameters of
the attacked neural networks are unknown to the attacker.
However, we found that the original adversarial patch
technique is not able to fool object detectors such as Faster
R-CNN (Ren et al. 2015) and YOLO (Redmon and Farhadi
2016), as shown in Fig.1. The reason resides at the detec-
tor architectures: Modern object detectors ﬁrst locate the ob-
jects with different sizes at different locations on the image
and then perform classiﬁcation. Hence, the number of tar-
gets that need to be attacked in this case is much larger than
that in a pure classiﬁcation application (Avishek and Parham
2018). For example, Faster R-CNN generates approximately
20k regions for classiﬁcation, which is far beyond an origi-
nal adversarial patch can effectively attack.
Our key insight is that both bounding box regression
and object classiﬁcation need to be simultaneously attacked.
Based on this observation, we propose DP ATCH – an itera-
tively trained adversarial patch that effectively attacks main-
stream object detectors. A small DP ATCH , e.g., a 40-by-40
pixel region, can perform both untargeted attack and targeted
attack: In an untargeted attack, the object detector cannot
locate the correct region containing normal object; in a tar-
geted attack, the object detector can only detect the DP ATCH
but ignore any other objects on the image.arXiv:1806.02299v4 [cs.CV] 23 Apr 2019Extensive evaluations imply that DP ATCH can perform ef-
fective attacks under black-box setup, i.e., even without the
knowledge of the attacked network’s architectures and pa-
rameters. Successful realization of DP ATCH also illustrates
the intrinsic vulnerability of the modern detector architec-
tures to such patch-based adversarial attacks.
Related Work
Attacking Deep Learning Systems. Convolutional neural
networks (CNNs) have been proven vulnerable to so called
adversarial attack, where the classiﬁcation result of the CNN
can be manipulated by adding small perturbations onto its
input examples (Christian et al. 2013; Eykholt et al. 2018;
Xiao et al. 2018). The adversarial examples can be crafted
by gradient based algorithms such as Fast Gradient Sign
Method (FGSM) (Goodfellow et al. 2014) and Projected
Gradient Descent (PGD) (Madry et al. 2017) or iterative
methods such as DeepFool (Moosavi-Dezfooli, Fawzi, and
Frossard 2016) and Carlini-Wagner (CW) attack (Carlini
and Wagner 2016). Based on the concept of adversarial at-
tack, an “adversarial glasses” (Sharif et al. 2016) was de-
signed to fool a face recognition system so that the system
recognizes the wearer as someone else. Most of the previous
stuides on adversarial attack are about pixel-wise additive
noise (Goodfellow et al. 2014; Moosavi-Dezfooli, Fawzi,
and Frossard 2016; Carlini and Wagner 2016; Xiao et al.
2018). However, these attacks change all the pixels of the
input image by a small amount, which tends to be not fea-
sible in real-world vision systems such as web cameras and
autonomous vehicles.
Adversarial Patch. To achieve a universal attack on real-
world vision system, Google (Brown et al. 2017) recently
designed a universal, robust adversarial patch that can be ap-
plied in real physical scene, causing a classiﬁer to output any
targeted class (Brown et al. 2017). Based on the principle
that object detection networks are used to detecting the most
”salient” object in an image, the adversarial patch can be
trained to be more ”salient” than other objects in the scene.
Speciﬁcally, the patch is trained to optimize the expected
probability of a target class (Brown et al. 2017). During the
training process, the patch is applied to the scene at a ran-
dom position with a random scale and rotation. This process
enables the patch to be robust against shifting, scaling and
rotating. Finally, the object in the scene will be detected as a
targeted class of the patch.
Proposed Approach
Revisit Modern Detectors
Faster R-CNN. As mentioned before, Faster R-CNN is a
typical two-stage detector. The ﬁrst stage is to propose re-
gions through a deep fully convolutional network, while the
second stage is the Fast R-CNN detector that uses the pro-
posed regions.
Region Proposal Network After extracting features by
convolutional layers, Faster R-CNN uses Region Proposal
Network(RPN) to generate the region proposals that the
object probably lies in. This Region Proposal Networktakes as input an nnspatial window ( 33win-
dow as default) to slide over the last shared convolutional
layer. These proposed regions generated by RPN will be
mapped to the previous feature map for object classiﬁca-
tion later on.
Anchors Generation and Region of Interest Faster R-
CNN uses a 33window to slide over the last shared
convolutional feature map. An anchor is centered at the
sliding window. It generates 9 anchor boxes at each slid-
ing position associated with 3 scales and 3 aspect ratios.
These anchor boxes are considered as the potential pro-
posal. When evaluating, Faster R-CNN uses a clslayer,
which outputs 2kscores to estimate probability of object
or not for each potential proposal. If the cls score is com-
paratively high, the potential proposal will be considered
as the Region of Interest(RoI) where an object exist. Oth-
erwise the proposal will be ignored.
In order to attack the 2-stage detector like Faster R-CNN,
it is necessary to invalidate the generation of correct re-
gion proposal. Our purpose is to make the region where
the DP ATCH exists as the only valid RoI, while other po-
tential proposal should be considered not to own an object
and thus, ignored.
YOLO. YOLO is introduced as a uniﬁed model for object
detection. It reframes object detection as a single regression
problem, straight from image pixels to bounding box coor-
dinates and class probabilities. YOLO has great advantages
of fast detection and high mAP.
Uniﬁed Detection Unlike Faster R-CNN, YOLO is a sin-
gle convolutional network simultaneously predicts mul-
tiple bounding boxes and class probabilities for those
boxes. Speciﬁcally, it divides the input image into multi-
ple grids, predicts bounding boxes and conﬁdence scores
for each grid. These conﬁdent scores reﬂect the conﬁ-
dence of the box containing an object, as well as the accu-
racy of the model predicting that box. This one-stage de-
tection system trains on full images and directly optimizes
detection performances (Joseph et al. 2015). By such op-
timized design, YOLO can run at 45 frames per second
on a Titan X GPU and also achieve more than twice the
mean average precision (mAP) of other real-time detec-
tion systems.
Bounding Boxes Prediction and Conﬁdence Scores
Each grid in the image predicts Bbounding boxes and
conﬁdence scores for those boxes. These conﬁdence
scores reﬂect how conﬁdent that the box contains an
object and how accurate the box is. If the conﬁdence
score is comparatively lower, that bounding box predicted
by the grid will not be considered to contain a real object.
Similarly, the grids where the DP ATCH exists should
be considered to have an object when attacking YOLO,
while other grids should be ignored. That is, the grid
containing a DP ATCH has higher conﬁdence score than
others with normal objects.
DPATCH Formulation
Original Adversarial Patch. As introduced in the In-
troduction section, the adversarial patch proposed byFigure 2: DP ATCH training system: we add a randomly-initialized DP ATCH to the image, utilize the detector network to do
classiﬁcation and bounding box regression based on the ground truth [DP ATCH x, DP ATCH y, DP ATCH w, DP ATCH h,
target label] . During back-propagation, we update the pixels of DP ATCH .
Google (Brown et al. 2017) is aiming for maximizing the
loss of a CNN classiﬁer when the patch is applied to an in-
put image. To make the patch effective on all the inputs and
under potential transformations in the physical world, the
patch is optimized over the expectation over random input
images, locations and transformations.
^P=argmax
PEx;t;l[logPr (^yjA(P; x; l; t ))] (1)
Equation (1) gives a formal description of the training
objective of adversarial patch (Brown et al. 2017), where
A(P; x; l; t )denotes the input image produced by applying
patch Pto the original image xat location lwith trans-
formation t. Potential transformation includes scaling and
rotating the patch. Pr(^yjA)is the probability of classifying
input Ainto the true label ^yproviding the CNN classiﬁer.
Optimizing this objective could produce a patch that can
effectively attack the classiﬁer invariant of shifting, scaling
and rotating when applied to any input.
Adversarial Patch on Object Detectors. Inspired by the
Google adversarial patch, we propose DP ATCH , an adversar-
ial patch that works against state-of-the-art object detectors.
We design DP ATCH for both untargeted and targeted attack
scenarios. For training the untargeted DP ATCH , we would
like to ﬁnd a patch pattern ^Puthat maximize the loss of the
object detector to the true class label ^yand bounding box
label ^Bwhen the patch is applied to the input scene xus-
ing “apply” function A, as shown in equation (2). And in a
targeted attack setting, we would like to ﬁnd a patch pattern
^Ptthat minimize the loss to the targeted class label ytand
bounding box label Bt, as shown in equation (3).
^Pu=argmax
PEx;s[L(A(x; s; P ); ^y;^B)] (2)
^Pt=argmin
PEx;s[L(A(x; s; P );yt; Bt)] (3)
The ”apply” function A(x; s; P )means adding patch P
onto input scene xwith shift s. Here we uniformly sample
the shift swithin the scene during the training to make our
patch shift invariant.
Object Detector Attacking System
DPATCH Training. As shown in Fig.2, we add a randomly
initialized DP ATCH pattern into the input image before
(a) a 40-by-40 untargeted
DPATCH that aims to attack
YOLO
(b) A 20-by-20 tvtargeted
DPATCH that attacks Faster
R-CNN
Figure 3: two DP ATCH es.
it enters the detector system, and deﬁne the ground truth
as [DP ATCH x, DP ATCH y, DP ATCH w, DP ATCH h, tar-
getlabel]. DP ATCH x and DP ATCH y represent the location
of the DP ATCH while DP ATCH w and DP ATCH h represent
its width and height. The bounding box label is [DP ATCH x,
DPATCH y, DP ATCH w, DP ATCH h], similar to the ground
truth of detector’s bounding boxes. For untargeted attack,
target label is deﬁned as 0; for targeted attack, target label
is equal to the label of targeted class. Note that the detector
system can either be Faster R-CNN or YOLO. The basic
DPATCH training process starts with a pretrained Faster
R-CNN or YOLO using Pascal VOC 2007 dataset (see
details in Experiments ).
DPATCH Design. Our default DP ATCH is a 40-by-40 square
which is attached onto the top left corner of the image.
Randomly-located DP ATCH In order to analyze the in-
ﬂuences of different locations and to make DP ATCH shift
invariant, we randomly shift the location of the DP ATCH
while keeping all the pixels in the DP ATCH same. Specif-
ically, we randomly initialize the value of shift swhen
preparing DP ATCH at each iteration of training, but leav-
ing the pixel points in it unmodiﬁed. In such a case,
each image in the dataset will be attached with the same
DPATCH but at different locations. The size of randomly-
located DP ATCH is still 40-by-40, the same as the default
setting.(a) No DP ATCH
 (b) With DP ATCH
Figure 4: YOLO cannot detect bike after adding DP ATCH
Either the predicted bounding box or the classiﬁcation result
is incorrect. The predicted bounding box is just a dot, while
the classiﬁcation result is sofa andperson .
DPATCH of Different Targeted Classes As there exist
more than 10 object classes in the dataset used to train a
detector, e.g., 20 classes in Pascal VOC 2007, it is intrigu-
ing to see whether mAP will fall down to a similar value if
we set the DP ATCH with different labels. For example, for
targeted attack, we can set the ground truth as [0, 0, 40,
40, 15], 15 is the label index representing person . That is,
we hope that the detector can only recognize the DP ATCH
and classiﬁed the DP ATCH asperson . In our experiment,
we randomly select four classes, bike,boat,cow andtv
from Pascal VOC 2007 and evaluate their attack effects.
DPATCH with Different Sizes DPATCH size is another
signiﬁcant predetermined factor that could affect the ef-
fectiveness of DP ATCH attack. There is a tradeoff be-
tween smaller patches that are harder to detect and de-
fense, while larger patches that provide better attacking
effect. In our experiment, we produce three different sizes
of DP ATCH es, namely, 20-by-20, 40-by-40 and 80-by-80
to test the efﬁciency of their attacks. In this way, we can
better understand the relationship between DP ATCH sizes
and their attacking effects, so that we can ﬁnd the minimal
possible size of a patch for meaningful attack.
Transferability of DP ATCH
Usually it is unknown that a detector is trained by which
architecture. In such case, it makes more sense that the
DPATCH trained by YOLO can also fool Faster R-CNN, or
the DP ATCH trained by Faster R-CNN with different clas-
siﬁers can fool each other. To verify this idea, we train a
DPATCH via YOLO and then add this trained DP ATCH to in-
put image, let Faster R-CNN work as the detector. If Faster
R-CNN cannot correctly detect the object in the input image,
our DP ATCH attack should be considered as transferrable
among detectors. Moreover, we train a DP ATCH on COCO
and then attack a Pascal VOC trained detector. If the mAP
obviously decreased, DP ATCH should be considered as trans-
ferrable between datasets.
Experiments
Setup. We use the pretrained YOLO and Faster R-CNN
with VGG16 and ResNet101 as basic networks. Pascal VOC
2007(Everingham et al. 2007) is utilized as the dataset,
which includes 20 labelled object classes. For YOLO, the
average mAP of the 20 classes is 65.7%; for Faster R-CNN
with VGG16, the average mAP is 70.01%, for Faster R-CNN with ResNet101, the average mAP is 75.1%. Most
previous work get similar detection mAP values as ours, so
we can use these three networks as our pretrained detector
networks. When performing targeted attack, we randomly
choose one class from Pascal VOC 2007 to be our target
class. Note that the default setting of YOLO is to generate
77grids in each image, however, our experiment generate
1010grids instead. This change does not affect the overall
detection performance of YOLO.
Untargeted DP ATCH Attack
Fig.3(a) shows a 40-by-40 DP ATCH that is designed as an
untargeted adversarial patch. This DP ATCH just aims to dis-
able the detector(YOLO here), while it does not have a spe-
ciﬁc label. That is, it is unnecessary for the detector to ac-
curately locate this DP ATCH and to classify it as some class.
As demonstrated, the original image Fig.3(b) where the bike
should be correctly detected by YOLO, is detected wrongly
as sofa and person in Fig.4(b).
After adding a untargeted DP ATCH to each image in the
testing dataset, mAPs of all classes are decreased obviously.
As Table.1 and Table. 2 show, For YOLO, mAP is decreased
from 65.7% to 0. For Faster R-CNN with ResNet101, mAP
is decreased from 75.10% to 0.
Targeted DP ATCH Attack
Fixed-sized and Fixed-located DP ATCH .Fig.3(b) shows a
20-by-20 DP ATCH , designed to attack Faster R-CNN with
ResNet101, whose targeted class is tv. This tvDPATCH
aims to make its occupied region to be recognized as the
only valid RoI by Faster R-CNN. In Fig.5, our DP ATCH
covers the left top corner of each image, though the patch
size(20-by-20) is small compared to other objects in the
scene, it successfully fools the Faster R-CNN classiﬁer and
make it yield one result: the targeted class of the DP ATCH .
Hence, the function of multi-object detection and recogni-
tion of Faster R-CNN models is invalidated. The predicted
probability is 0.997 of the ﬁrst image of Fig.5, the predicted
probability is 1.000 of the other three images. These predic-
tions make sense because only the DP ATCH occupied region
can be recognized, other regions are ignored.
Speciﬁcally, the main purpose of applying such DP ATCH
is to make mean Accuracy Precision (mAP) of all classes
in the dataset drop down to a lower value. The more mAP
decreases, more successful the DP ATCH attack is.
Table.1 demonstrates that after approximately 200k train-
ing iterations, this DP ATCH could fool almost all the 20
classes in Pascal VOC 2007. The mAP falls down from
75.10% to 0.98%. We notice that at the start of training pe-
riod (when training iteration is less than 40k), the falling
speed of mAP is largest (see Fig.6). As the DP ATCH accepts
deeper training, its attack effect will gradually be weakened.
Therefore, we can conclude that there exists a saturated point
for training DP ATCH . After that saturated point, increasing
training iterations will no longer improve the attack effects.
Fortv, the saturate point of training iterations is about 180k.
Fig.7(a) shows another DP ATCH attacking Faster R-CNN
whose targeted class is bike. When we apply this DP ATCH
onto an image, all the bounding boxes determined by theTable 1: Results on Pascal VOC 2007 test set with Fast R-CNN and ResNet101 when applying DP ATCH of different types
Faster R-CNN plane bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table
no DP ATCH 74.80 80.20 77.60 64.50 61.50 81.10 86.70 86.40 55.70 89.30 69.60
untargeted DP ATCH 0.10 3.20 4.30 0.00 5.40 0.00 9.80 0.00 11.20 10.60 5.20
targeted DP ATCH 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.53 0.08 0.61 0.00 0.02 0.00
YOLO trained DP ATCH 2.27 0.51 0.87 2.27 0.78 1.52 4.55 0.62 1.17 3.03 2.10
dog horse motor person plant sheep sofa train tv mAP
87.40 84.50 80.00 78.60 47.70 76.00 74.60 76.60 73.70 75.10
0.30 0.59 0.00 1.69 0.00 4.68 0.00 0.00 1.00 2.90
9.09 0.16 0.00 9.09 0.16 0.00 9.09 0.00 0.00 0.98
2.02 3.37 1.30 0.94 0.53 0.43 3.03 1.52 1.52 1.72
Table 2: Results on Pascal VOC 2007 test set with YOLO when applying DP ATCH of different types
YOLO plane bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table
no DP ATCH 69.50 75.60 64.00 52.30 35.60 73.40 74.00 79.60 42.10 66.10 66.90
untargeted DP ATCH 0.00 1.50 9.10 1.30 9.10 0.00 9.10 0.00 9.10 9.10 0.40
targeted DP ATCH 0.00 4.55 9.09 0.00 0.09 0.00 9.09 1.82 0.01 0.00 0.36
Faster R-CNN trained DP ATCH 0.01 0.00 0.23 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00
dog horse motor person plant sheep sofa train tv mAP
78.10 80.10 78.20 65.90 41.70 62.00 67.60 77.60 63.10 65.70
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.10 9.10 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00
0.01 0.00 0.00 1.73 0.00 0.00 1.07 0.00 9.09 1.85
0.00 0.03 0.00 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.02
Figure 5: The DP ATCH is placed on the left top corner of
the images. Faster R-CNN networks can on longer recog-
nize other objects. Here, we apply a DP ATCH whose tar-
geted class is tv, it can fully fool the Faster R-CNN networks
though the DP ATCH size is comparatively small compared to
other objects in the scene.
region proposals are disturbed. We observe that during the
200k training iterations of this bike DPATCH , it takes about
100k training iterations for the class loss to decrease to ap-
proximately 0, while the bounding box loss keeps compar-
atively higher after 200k training iterations. That is, the de-
tector cannot locate this DP ATCH accurately, while its clas-
siﬁcation result is the targeted label of DP ATCH . Since our
purpose is to disable the object detector, considering the de-
tector(Faster R-CNN here) has already been attacked to give
wrong classiﬁcation result and also the bounding box of nor-
mal objects, this targeted DP ATCH attack should be consid-
ered successful. It is unnecessary to continue training this
DPATCH to make the detector locate it accurately.
Fig.7(b) shows a DP ATCH attacking YOLO whose tar-
12468101214161820Training Iterations (K)020406080mAP (%)Figure 6: As training iterations accumulate, the falling speed
of mAP gradually slow down, meaning the attack effects of
DPATCH will saturate at a point. For tv, the saturate point is
approximately 200k training iterations.
geted class is person . After we stick it to the image, the
detector(YOLO here) can only give the classiﬁcation as per-
son, while the horses in the image cannot be detected.
Fixed-sized and Randomly-located DP ATCH .After exper-
imenting with the ﬁxed-located DP ATCH , our next trial is
to randomly shift the DP ATCH in a scene, which means the
same DP ATCH could appear in any location of the original
image. The main purpose of such practice is to evaluate the
attacking efﬁciency of different locations where the patch
is placed. If the attacking efﬁciency, such as spending same
training iterations to get similar mAP, does not differ from
each other, it is unnecessary to design a speciﬁc attack re-
gion, which means attackers can place the DP ATCH in any
area. We set the targeted class as bike, and kept the patch
size as 20-by-20, and the attacked detector is Faster R-CNN.
Table.3 demonstrates the decreased mAP when Faster
R-CNN is attacked by randomly-located and ﬁxed-located
DPATCH . It is notable that randomly-located one does
not improve the attack result. That is, recognition accu-
racy(mAP) of all classes have declined to a similar value
no matter where the patch is located. This result makes(a) targeted DP ATCH attacking
Faster R-CNN
(b) targeted DP ATCH attack-
ing YOLO
Figure 7: Successful DP ATCH attack despite of inaccurate
bounding boxes: The left is a bike targeted DP ATCH attack-
ing Faster R-CNN, the right is a person targeted DP ATCH
attacking YOLO. These wired bounding boxes are due to
the inconvergence of the bounding box loss. Since our pur-
pose is to disable the object detector but not to locate the
DPATCH accurately, this DP ATCH attack should be consid-
ered successful.
sense because Faster R-CNN detector will ﬁrst extract thou-
sands of region proposals all over the image, instead of ﬁnd-
ing a speciﬁc area. In this case, if the detector search the
whole image in the ﬁrst step, the region with DP ATCH will
be treated as the only valid RoI. After this detection pro-
cess, all the detected objects will be misclassiﬁed as the tar-
geted class, which also has no relation with the location of
DPATCH . Similarly, YOLO also ﬁrstly sees the entire image,
the location of the DP ATCH will not inﬂuence the attack re-
sults. Therefore, we could place the DP ATCH in an image
without intentionally designing its location, which intensi-
ﬁes the feasibility of the attack.
Multiple-Sized DP ATCH .Since all previous targeted at-
tacks set the DP ATCH size to be 20-by-20, we would pre-
fer to observe the impacts of DP ATCH size on detectors. We
add two more sizes in this test: 40-by-40 and 80-by-80. It is
expected that larger-size patch can decrease mAP to a lower
value. Table.4 validates such expectation.
In order to avoid the inﬂuence of training iterations, we
train these three DP ATCH es for 200k iterations and make
them approach saturated points. We observe that the small-
est size for valid attack differ from individual classes. For
example, 20-by-20 sized DP ATCH is robust enough to at-
tackbike,bird,boat and so on, while 80-by-80 sized one
still cannot thoroughly misclassify bottle ,motor ,person
andplant . Therefore, we can set the DP ATCH size accord-
ing to the classes we mainly want to attack.
Further Analysis
Training with Different Targeted Classes. It has been
found that the bounding box loss is easier to converge for
some class, e.g. tv, however, harder to converge for some
other targeted classes like bike andperson . Therefore, we
would like to explore whether DP ATCH of different targeted
classes can cause mAP drop down to a similar value after
same training iterations.
We casually select two more classes to attack the same
planebikebirdboatbottlebuscarcatchaircowtabledoghorsemotorpersonAVG01020304050mAP (%)bikeboatcowtvFigure 8: Per class mAP after attacked by DP ATCH es of dif-
ferent targeted classes. bike andboat shrink mAP to 24.72%
and 33.50%, while cow andtvshrink mAP to 0.38% and
0.98%. Therefore, the attack results differ from targeted
classes.
detector, Faster R-CNN: boat,cow to compare with tvand
bike. Fig.8 shows that after 200k training iterations, these
targeted classes cause mAP fall down to different levels. cow
andtvboth decline mAP to almost 0, while bike andboat
shrink mAP to 24.72% and 33.50%.
Based on this ﬁnding, we can conclude that tvandcoware
more efﬁcient to attack Faster R-CNN networks. It could be
better to set the targeted class as tvorcowrather than boat or
bike. Hence, we can select the most efﬁcient targeted class
to train the DP ATCH if the dataset is known.
Detector Transferability of DP ATCH .In the previous ex-
periments, we attack the same detector as the DP ATCH is
trained on. However, it is more effective if the DP ATCH
is transferable among different detectors, speciﬁcally, we
train the DP ATCH via YOLO and it can also successfully
attack Faster R-CNN. Fig.9 shows that a DP ATCH trained
by YOLO, whose targeted class is person , can fool Faster
R-CNN. We apply this YOLO-trained DP ATCH to each im-
age in the testing dataset of Pascal VOC 2007 and make
Faster R-CNN work as the detector, Table.1 demonstrates
that mAP of some classes, e.g. bike,bird,bottle , are even
declined to a lower value than attack on YOLO itself, while
the attack on some other classes are less effective, e.g.,
plane ,boat. However, mAP of all classes have considerable
decrease. Similarly, Faster R-CNN trained DP ATCH is also
able to attack YOLO, see Table.2. In such case, we can say
that our DP ATCH can be designed as a universal and black-
box adversarial attack for object detectors.
Dataset Transferability of DP ATCH .To investigate the
transferability of DP ATCH among different datasets, we train
an untargeted DPatch using COCO and test it on Pascal VOC
trained detector. It is obvious that mAP decreases a lot af-
ter attaching the DPatch, shown in Table.5. Although the at-
tack performance is not as good as the DPatch trained by the
same dataset, DP ATCH can still considerably inﬂuence the
overall performance.
Why DP ATCH Works. As explained before, our main pur-
pose is to train a DP ATCH pattern that once attached to the
input image, the RoIs extracted by the detector is the re-
gion that DP ATCH occupies. After extracting RoIs, detec-
tor performs classiﬁcation tasks and bounding box regres-
sions on these RoI areas while ignore others. In such case,
if the DP ATCH attacks the detector successfully, most ex-Table 3: Results on Pascal VOC 2007 test set of ﬁxed-located DP ATCH and randomly-located DP ATCH , whose targeted class
isbike that attacks faster R-CNN. After 200k training iterations, mAP of Pascal VOC 2007 both decreased from 75.10% to
around 25%. Therefore, the location of DP ATCH does not inﬂuence the attack results.
plane bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table
ﬁxed-located 25.66 0.03 32.48 11.03 8.68 35.36 30.19 38.97 13.79 30.55 21.7
randomly-located 25.69 0.03 32.16 11.54 9.68 36.01 30.12 38.66 14.09 30.13 22.00
dog horse motor person plant sheep sofa train tv mAP
35.77 29.13 19.44 23.02 9.33 33.61 36.28 41.09 32.16 25.14
36.01 29.01 19.39 23.17 9.33 33.58 36.30 41.11 32.19 25.51
Table 4: Results on Pascal VOC 2007 test set after attacked by 20-by-20-sized, 40-by-40-sized and 80-by-80-sized DP ATCH
. The targeted class are all cow that attacks Faster R-CNN. After same training iterations (200k in this case), larger sized
adversarial patch can decrease mAP to a lower value.
plane bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table
20-by-20 0.1 0 0 0 0.17 0 1.5 0 0 4.57 0
40-by-40 0 0 0.01 0 0.16 0 1.14 0 0 4.55 0
80-by-80 0 0 0 0 0.09 0 1 0 0 3.92 0
dog horse motor person plant sheep sofa train tv mAP
0.04 0 0.54 0.21 0.4 0.05 0.06 0.03 0 0.38
0.02 0 0.51 0.12 0.61 0.02 0 0 0 0.36
0 0 0.43 0.09 0.33 0 0 0 0 0.29
Table 5: Transferability of DP ATCH among different detec-
tors and datasets. The DP ATCH trained with COCO is able
to attack the Faster R-CNN trained by Pascal VOC.
Faster R-CNN+VOC YOLO+VOC
no DPatch 75.10 65.70
COCO-trained DPatch 28.00 24.34
VOC-trained DPatch 2.90 0.00
Figure 9: YOLO-trained DP ATCH successfully disables
Faster R-CNN.
tracted RoIs should gather in the region where we attach
DPATCH . To verify this inference, we sum up the RoIs to
ﬁnd the most frequent area that RoI appears. As shown in
Fig.10, the number in each grid represents the frequency that
RoI occupies it. We attach a DP ATCH in the left upper cor-
ner of each image in the testing dataset, and let YOLO work
as the detector. Fig.10(a) veriﬁes that YOLO-extracted RoIs
are concentrated on grid 1 and grid 2, where our DP ATCH
locates. On contrary, Fig.10(b) shows that without DP ATCH ,
YOLO-extracted RoIs are distributed over all grids.
Similarly, Fig.11 demonstrates the distribution of RoIs
extracted by Faster R-CNN with and without DP ATCH . It
is clear that the regions that DP ATCH occupies are consid-
ered as RoIs more frequently, as shown in Fig.11(a). Instead,
(a) YOLO-extracted RoIs with
DPATCH
(b) YOLO-extracted RoIs
without DP ATCH
Figure 10: The left is YOLO-extracted RoIs after adding
DPATCH in the left upper corner of each image. The number
in each grid is the frequency of the RoI appears in it. Ob-
viously, RoIs gather in the area where DP ATCH locates. On
contrary, the right is extracted RoIs without DP ATCH . RoIs
are distributed over all of the grids.
(a) Faster R-CNN
extracted RoIs with
DPATCH
(b) Faster R-CNN
extracted RoIs without
DPATCH
Figure 11: Darker the color, higher the frequency of RoI
being predicted here. The left is Faster R-CNN extracted
RoIs after adding DP ATCH , obviously concentrated on the
left, while the right is Faster R-CNN extracted RoIs without
DPATCH , more evenly distributed.RoIs distribute much more evenly without the inﬂuence of
DPATCH , shown in Fig.11(b).
Such analysis veriﬁes that our DP ATCH performs a suc-
cessful attack towards object detectors, mainly because all
the RoIs is actually occupied by the DP ATCH , instead of
normal objects.
Conclusions
In this work, we successfully attack modern object detec-
tors using our proposed DP ATCH , where the adversarial at-
tack is performed by learning and embedding a small patch
in the input image. Compared to prior works, our DP ATCH
has several appealing properties: (1) DP ATCH can perform
effective attacks against mainstream modern detector ar-
chitectures, such as the two-stage detector Faster R-CNN
and the one-stage detector YOLO; (2) DP ATCH is small in
size and its attacking effect is location-independent, mak-
ing it very practical to implement real-world attacks; (3)
DPATCH demonstrates great transferability between differ-
ent detector architectures as well as training datasets. For
example, DP ATCH that is trained on Faster R-CNN can ef-
fectively attack YOLO, and vice versa. Our experiments im-
ply that DP ATCH can perform effective attacks under black-
box setup, i.e., even without the knowledge of the attacked
network’s architectures and parameters. The successful real-
ization of DP ATCH also illustrates the intrinsic vulnerability
of the modern detector architectures to such patch-based ad-
versarial attacks.
References
Avishek, J., and Parham, A. 2018. Adversarial attacks on
face detectors using neural net based constrained optimiza-
tion. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition(CVPR) .
Brown, T. B.; Man, D.; Roy, A.; Abadi, M.; and Gilmer, J.
2017. Adversarial patch. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.09665 .
Carlini, N., and Wagner, D. 2016. Towards evaluat-
ing the robustness of neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1608.04644 .
Christian, S.; Wojciech, Z.; Ilya, S.; Joan, B.; Dumitru, E.;
Ian, G.; and Rob, F. 2013. Intriguing properties of neural
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199 .
Everingham, M.; Van Gool, L.; Williams, C.
K. I.; Winn, J.; and Zisserman, A. 2007.
The PASCAL Visual Object Classes Challenge
2007 (VOC2007) Results. http://www.pascal-
network.org/challenges/VOC/voc2007/workshop/index.html.
Eykholt, K.; Evtimov, I.; Fernandes, E.; Li, B.; Rahmati, A.;
and Xiao, C. 2018. Robust physical-world attacks on deep
learning visual classiﬁcation. In Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition(CVPR) .
Girshick, R. 2015. Fast r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision .
Goodfellow; I.J.; Shlens, J.; and Szegedy, C. 2014. Explain-
ing and harnessing adversarial examples. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1412.6572 .Joseph, R.; Santosh, D.; Ross, G.; and Ali, F. 2015. You only
look once: Uniﬁed, real-time object detection. In Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition(CVPR) .
Liao, F.; Liang, M.; Dong, Y .; Pang, T.; Hu, X.; and
Zhu, J. 2017. Defense against adversarial attacks using
high-level representation guided denoiser. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1712.02976 .
Liu, Z.; Luo, P.; Wang, X.; and Tang, X. 2015. Deep learn-
ing face attributes in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision , 3730–3738.
Madry, A.; Makelov, A.; Schmidt, L.; and Tsipras, D. 2017.
Towards deep learning models resistant to adversarial at-
tacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.06083 .
Moosavi-Dezfooli, S.-M.; Fawzi, A.; and Frossard, P. 2016.
Deepfool: a simple and accurate method to fool deep neural
networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , 2574–2582.
Papernot, N.; McDaniel, P.; Goodfellow, I.; Jha, S.; Celik,
Z. B.; and Swami, A. 2017. Practical black-box attacks
against machine learning. 2017 ACM Asia Conference on
Computer and Communications Security .
Redmon, J., and Farhadi, A. 2016. Yolo9000: Better, faster,
stronger. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.08242 .
Ren, S.; He, K.; Girshick, R.; and Sun, J. 2015. Faster r-
cnn: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal
networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NIPS) .
Sharif, M.; Bhagavatula, S.; Bauer, L.; and Reiter, M. 2016.
Accessorize to a crime: Real and stealthy attacks on state-
of-the-art face recognition. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Se-
curity , 1528–1540.
Xiao, C.; Zhu, J.-Y .; Li, B.; He, W.; Liu, M.; and Song, D.
2018. Spatially transformed adversarial examples. arXiv
preprint:arXiv:1801.02612 .