3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-340: Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/340.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-340: Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
Weakness ID: 340
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a scheme that generates numbers or identifiers that are more predictable than required.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
ParentOf 341 Predictable from Observable State
ParentOf 342 Predictable Exact V alue from Previous V alues
ParentOf 343 Predictable V alue Range from Previous V alues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code generates a unique random identifier for a user's session.
Because the seed for the PRNG is always the user's ID, the session ID will always be the same. An attacker could thus predict any
user's session ID and potentially hijack the session.
This example also exhibits a Small Seed Space ( CWE-339 ).
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29330 Product for administering PBX systems uses predictable identifiers and timestamps for filenames
(CWE-340 ) which allows attackers to access files via direct request ( CWE-425 ).
CVE-2001-1141 PRNG allows attackers to use the output of small PRNG requests to determine the internal state
information, which could be used by attackers to predict future pseudo-random numbers.
CVE-1999-0074 Listening TCP ports are sequentially allocated, allowing spoofing attacks.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function generateSessionID($userID){
srand($userID);
return rand();
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-340: Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/340.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Predictability problems
WASC 11 Brute Force
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names