3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-271: Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/271.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-271: Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors
Weakness ID: 271
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not drop privileges before passing control of a resource to an actor that does not have those privileges.
 Extended Description
In some contexts, a system executing with elevated permissions will hand of f a process/file/etc. to another process or user . If the
privileges of an entity are not reduced, then elevated privileges are spread throughout a system and possibly to an attacker .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 269 Improper Privilege Management
ParentOf 272 Least Privilege V iolation
ParentOf 273 Improper Check for Dropped Privileges
PeerOf 274 Improper Handling of Insuf ficient Privileges
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If privileges are not dropped, neither are access rights of the user . Often these rights can be
prevented from being dropped.
Access Control
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Hide Activities
If privileges are not dropped, in some cases the system may record actions as the user which is
being impersonated rather than the impersonator .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code calls chroot() to restrict the application to a subset of the filesystem below APP\_HOME in order to prevent an
attacker from using the program to gain unauthorized access to files located elsewhere. The code then opens a file specified by the
user and processes the contents of the file.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
chroot(APP\_HOME);
chdir("/");
FILE\* data = fopen(argv[1], "r+");
...3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-271: Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/271.html 2/3Constraining the process inside the application's home directory before opening any files is a valuable security measure. However ,
the absence of a call to setuid() with some non-zero value means the application is continuing to operate with unnecessary root
privileges. Any successful exploit carried out by an attacker against the application can now result in a privilege escalation attack
because any malicious operations will be performed with the privileges of the superuser . If the application drops to the privilege level
of a non-root user , the potential for damage is substantially reduced.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-1213 Program does not drop privileges after acquiring the raw socket.
CVE-2001-0559 Setuid program does not drop privileges after a parsing error occurs, then calls another program to
handle the error .
CVE-2001-0787 Does not drop privileges in related groups when lowering privileges.
CVE-2002-0080 Does not drop privileges in related groups when lowering privileges.
CVE-2001-1029 Does not drop privileges before determining access to certain files.
CVE-1999-0813 Finger daemon does not drop privileges when executing programs on behalf of the user being fingered.
CVE-1999-1326 FTP server does not drop privileges if a connection is aborted during file transfer .
CVE-2000-0172 Program only uses seteuid to drop privileges.
CVE-2004-2504 Windows program running as SYSTEM does not drop privileges before executing other programs
(many others like this, especially involving the Help facility).
CVE-2004-0213 Utility Manager launches winhlp32.exe while running with raised privileges, which allows local users to
gain system privileges.
CVE-2004-0806 Setuid program does not drop privileges before executing program specified in an environment
variable.
CVE-2004-0828 Setuid program does not drop privileges before processing file specified on command line.
CVE-2004-2070 Service on Windows does not drop privileges before using "view file" option, allowing code execution.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a
system resource.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Maintenance
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-271: Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/271.html 3/3CWE-271 , CWE-272 , and CWE-250 are all closely related and possibly overlapping. CWE-271 is probably better suited as a
category .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 16: Executing Code With
Too Much Privilege." Page 243. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Dropping
Privileges Permanently", Page 479. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications