3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1284: Improper Validation of Speciﬁed Quantity in Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1284.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1284: Improper V alidation of Specified Quantity in Input
Weakness ID: 1284
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input that is expected to specify a quantity (such as size or length), but it does not validate or incorrectly
validates that the quantity has the required properties.
 Extended Description
Specified quantities include size, length, frequency , price, rate, number of operations, time, and others. Code may rely on specified
quantities to allocate resources, perform calculations, control iteration, etc. When the quantity is not properly validated, then attackers
can specify malicious quantities to cause excessive resource allocation, trigger unexpected failures, enable buf fer overflows, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 20 Improper Input V alidation
ParentOf 606 Unchecked Input for Loop Condition
CanPrecede 789 Memory Allocation with Excessive Size V alue
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1215 Data V alidation Issues
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context
Since quantities are used so often to af fect resource allocation or process financial data, they are often
present in many places in the code.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example demonstrates a shopping interaction in which the user is free to specify the quantity of items to be purchased and a
total is calculated.
The user has no control over the price variable, however the code does not prevent a negative value from being specified for quantity .
If an attacker were to provide a negative value, then the user would have their account credited instead of debited.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
public static final double price = 20.00;
int quantity = currentUser.getAttribute("quantity");
double total = price \* quantity;
chargeUser(total);
...3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1284: Improper Validation of Speciﬁed Quantity in Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1284.html 2/3Example 2
This example asks the user for a height and width of an m X n game board with a maximum dimension of 100 squares.
While this code checks to make sure the user cannot specify large, positive integers and consume too much memory , it does not
check for negative values supplied by the user . As a result, an attacker can perform a resource consumption ( CWE-400 ) attack
against this program by specifying two, large negative values that will not overflow , resulting in a very large memory allocation ( CWE-
789) and possibly a system crash. Alternatively , an attacker can provide very large negative values which will cause an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ) and unexpected behavior will follow depending on how the values are treated in the remainder of the program.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21668 Chain: Python library does not limit the resources used to process images that specify a very large
number of bands ( CWE-1284 ), leading to excessive memory consumption ( CWE-789 ) or an integer
overflow ( CWE-190 ).
CVE-2008-1440 lack of validation of length field leads to infinite loop
CVE-2008-2374 lack of validation of string length fields allows memory consumption or buf fer over-read
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1406 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Input V alidation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
(bad code) Example Language: C 
...
#define MAX\_DIM 100
...
/\* board dimensions \*/
int m,n, error;
board\_square\_t \*board;
printf("Please specify the board height: \n");
error = scanf("%d", &m);
if ( EOF == error ){
die("No integer passed: Die evil hacker!\n");
}
printf("Please specify the board width: \n");
error = scanf("%d", &n);
if ( EOF == error ){
die("No integer passed: Die evil hacker!\n");
}
if ( m > MAX\_DIM || n > MAX\_DIM ) {
die("Value too large: Die evil hacker!\n");
}
board = (board\_square\_t\*) malloc( m \* n \* sizeof(board\_square\_t));
...3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1284: Improper Validation of Speciﬁed Quantity in Input (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1284.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
This entry is still under development and will continue to see updates and content improvements.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-06-24
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications