3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/226.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse
Weakness ID: 226
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product releases a resource such as memory or a file so that it can be made available for reuse, but it does not clear or "zeroize"
the information contained in the resource before the product performs a critical state transition or makes the resource available for
reuse by other entities.
 Extended Description
When resources are released, they can be made available for reuse. For example, after memory is de-allocated, an operating system
may make the memory available to another process, or disk space may be reallocated when a file is deleted. As removing information
requires time and additional resources, operating systems do not usually clear the previously written information.
Even when the resource is reused by the same process, this weakness can arise when new data is not as large as the old data,
which leaves portions of the old data still available. Equivalent errors can occur in other situations where the length of data is variable
but the associated data structure is not. If memory is not cleared after use, the information may be read by less trustworthy parties
when the memory is reallocated.
This weakness can apply in hardware, such as when a device or system switches between power , sleep, or debug states during
normal operation, or when execution changes to dif ferent users or privilege levels.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 212 Improper Removal of Sensitive Information Before Storage or Transfer
ChildOf 459 Incomplete Cleanup
ParentOf 244 Improper Clearing of Heap Memory Before Release ('Heap Inspection')
ParentOf 1239 Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register
ParentOf 1272 Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Debug/Power State Transition
ParentOf 1301 Insuf ficient or Incomplete Data Removal within Hardware Component
ParentOf 1342 Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution
CanPrecede 201 Insertion of Sensitive Information Into Sent Data
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
ParentOf 1239 Improper Zeroization of Hardware Register
ParentOf 1342 Information Exposure through Microarchitectural State after Transient Execution
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/226.html 2/5This example shows how an attacker can take advantage of an incorrect state transition.
Suppose a device is transitioning from state A to state B. During state A, it can read certain private keys from the hidden fuses that are
only accessible in state A but not in state B. The device reads the keys, performs operations using those keys, then transitions to state
B, where those private keys should no longer be accessible.
After the transition to state B, even though the private keys are no longer accessible directly from the fuses in state B, they can be
accessed indirectly by reading the memory that contains the private keys.
Example 2
The following code calls realloc() on a buf fer containing sensitive data:
There is an attempt to scrub the sensitive data from memory , but realloc() is used, so it could return a pointer to a dif ferent part of
memory . The memory that was originally allocated for cleartext\_buf fer could still contain an uncleared copy of the data.
Example 3
The following example code is excerpted from the AES wrapper/interface, aes0\_wrapper , module of one of the AES engines (AES0)
in the Hack@DAC'21 buggy OpenPiton System-on-Chip (SoC). Note that this SoC contains three distinct AES engines. Within this
wrapper module, four 32-bit registers are utilized to store the message intended for encryption, referred to as p\_c[i]. Using the AXI Lite
interface, these registers are filled with the 128-bit message to be encrypted.
The above code snippet [ REF-1402 ] illustrates an instance of a vulnerable implementation of the AES wrapper module, where p\_c[i]
registers are cleared at reset. Otherwise, p\_c[i]registers either maintain their old values (if reglk\_ctrl\_i[3]is true) or get filled through
the AXI signal wdata. Note that p\_c[i]registers can be read through the AXI Lite interface (not shown in snippet). However , p\_c[i]
registers are never cleared after their usage once the AES engine has completed the encryption process of the message. In a multi-
user or multi-process environment, not clearing registers may result in the attacker process accessing data left by the victim, leading
to data leakage or unintentional information disclosure.
To fix this issue, it is essential to ensure that these internal registers are cleared in a timely manner after their usage, i.e., the
encryption process is complete. This is illustrated below by monitoring the assertion of the cipher text valid signal, ct\_valid [ REF-(bad code) 
During the transition from A to B, the device does not scrub the memory.
(good code) 
For transition from state A to state B, remove information which should not be available once the transition is complete.
(bad code) Example Language: C 
cleartext\_buffer = get\_secret();...
cleartext\_buffer = realloc(cleartext\_buffer, 1024);
...
scrub\_memory(cleartext\_buffer, 1024);
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module aes0\_wrapper #(...)(...);
...
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~rst\_1)) //clear p\_c[i] at reset
begin
start <= 0;
p\_c[0] <= 0;
p\_c[1] <= 0;
p\_c[2] <= 0;
p\_c[3] <= 0;
...
end
else if(en && we)
case(address[8:3])
0:
start <= reglk\_ctrl\_i[1] ? start : wdata[0];
1:
p\_c[3] <= reglk\_ctrl\_i[3] ? p\_c[3] : wdata[31:0];
2:
p\_c[2] <= reglk\_ctrl\_i[3] ? p\_c[2] : wdata[31:0];
3:
p\_c[1] <= reglk\_ctrl\_i[3] ? p\_c[1] : wdata[31:0];
4:
p\_c[0] <= reglk\_ctrl\_i[3] ? p\_c[0] : wdata[31:0];
...
endcase
end // always @ (posedge wb\_clk\_i)
endmodule3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/226.html 3/51403 ].
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-3733 Cryptography library does not clear heap memory before release
CVE-2003-0001 Ethernet NIC drivers do not pad frames with null bytes, leading to infoleak from malformed packets.
CVE-2003-0291 router does not clear information from DHCP packets that have been previously used
CVE-2005-1406 Products do not fully clear memory buf fers when less data is stored into the buf fer than previous.
CVE-2005-1858 Products do not fully clear memory buf fers when less data is stored into the buf fer than previous.
CVE-2005-3180 Products do not fully clear memory buf fers when less data is stored into the buf fer than previous.
CVE-2005-3276 Product does not clear a data structure before writing to part of it, yielding information leak of previously
used memory .
CVE-2002-2077 Memory not properly cleared before reuse.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
During critical state transitions, information not needed in the next state should be removed or overwritten with fixed patterns
(such as all 0's) or random data, before the transition to the next state.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
When releasing, de-allocating, or deleting a resource, overwrite its data and relevant metadata with fixed patterns or random
data. Be cautious about complex resource types whose underlying representation might be non-contiguous or change at a low
level, such as how a file might be split into dif ferent chunks on a file system, even though "logical" file positions are contiguous at
the application layer . Such resource types might require invocation of special modes or APIs to tell the underlying operating
system to perform the necessary clearing, such as SDelete (Secure Delete) on Windows, although the appropriate functionality
might not be available at the application layer .
Effectiveness: High
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Write a known pattern into each sensitive location. Trigger the release of the resource or cause the desired state transition to
occur . Read data back from the sensitive locations. If the reads are successful, and the data is the same as the pattern that was
originally written, the test fails and the product needs to be fixed. Note that this test can likely be automated.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
module aes0\_wrapper #(...)(...);
...
always @(posedge clk\_i)
begin
if(~(rst\_ni && ~rst\_1)) //clear p\_c[i] at reset
...
else if(ct\_valid) //encryption process complete, clear p\_c[i]
begin
p\_c[0] <= 0;
p\_c[1] <= 0;
p\_c[2] <= 0;
p\_c[3] <= 0;
end
else if(en && we)
case(address[8:3])
...
endcase
end // always @ (posedge wb\_clk\_i)
endmodule3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/226.html 4/5
 Functional Areas
Memory Management
Networking
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
There is a close association between CWE-226 and CWE-212 . The dif ference is partially that of perspective. CWE-226 is geared
towards the final stage of the resource lifecycle, in which the resource is deleted, eliminated, expired, or otherwise released for
reuse. Technically , this involves a transfer to a dif ferent control sphere, in which the original contents of the resource are no longer
relevant. CWE-212 , however , is intended for sensitive data in resources that are intentionally shared with others, so they are still
active. This distinction is useful from the perspective of the CWE research view ( CWE-1000 ).
Research Gap
This is frequently found for network packets, but it can also exist in local memory allocation, files, etc.
Maintenance
This entry needs modification to clarify the dif ferences with CWE-212 . The description also combines two problems that are distinct
from the CWE research perspective: the inadvertent transfer of information to another sphere, and improper initialization/shutdown.
Some of the associated taxonomy mappings reflect these dif ferent uses.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID FitMapped Node Name
PLOVER Sensitive Information Uncleared Before Use
CER T C Secure Coding MEM03-C Clear sensitive information stored in reusable resources returned for reuse
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
 References
[REF-1402] "aes0\_wrapper .sv". 2021. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/65d0f fdab7426da4509c98d62e163bcce642f651/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/aes0/aes0\_wrapper .sv
#L84C2-L90C29> >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
[REF-1403] "Fix for aes0\_wrapper". 2023-11-29. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac21/blob/0034df f6852365a8c4e36590a47ea8b088d725ae/piton/design/chip/tile/ariane/src/aes0/aes0\_wrapper .s
v#L96C1-L102C16 >. URL validated: 2024-02-14 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
3/7/24, 2:53 PM CWE - CWE-226: Sensitive Information in Resource Not Removed Before Reuse (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/226.html 5/5
 Submissions
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-29
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
2023-11-29
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)Mohamadreza Rostami, Shaza Zeitouni, Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi Technical University of Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names