3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/269.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management
Weakness ID: 269
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly assign, modify , track, or check privileges for an actor , creating an unintended sphere of control for that
actor .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
ParentOf 250 Execution with Unnecessary Privileges
ParentOf 266 Incorrect Privilege Assignment
ParentOf 267 Privilege Defined With Unsafe Actions
ParentOf 268 Privilege Chaining
ParentOf 270 Privilege Context Switching Error
ParentOf 271 Privilege Dropping / Lowering Errors
ParentOf 274 Improper Handling of Insuf ficient Privileges
ParentOf 648 Incorrect Use of Privileged APIs
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code temporarily raises the program's privileges to allow creation of a new user folder .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def makeNewUserDir(username):
if invalidUsername(username):
#avoid CWE-22 and CWE-78
print('Usernames cannot contain invalid characters')
return False
try:
raisePrivileges()
os.mkdir('/home/' + username)
lowerPrivileges()3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/269.html 2/5While the program only raises its privilege level to create the folder and immediately lowers it again, if the call to os.mkdir() throws an
exception, the call to lowerPrivileges() will not occur . As a result, the program is indefinitely operating in a raised privilege state,
possibly allowing further exploitation to occur .
Example 2
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 3
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
Example 4
This code intends to allow only Administrators to print debug information about a system.
While the intention was to only allow Administrators to print the debug information, the code as written only excludes those with the
role of "GUEST". Someone with the role of "ADMIN" or "USER" will be allowed access, which goes against the original intent. An
attacker may be able to use this debug information to craft an attack on the system.
Example 5
This code allows someone with the role of "ADMIN" or "OPERA TOR" to reset a user's password. The role of "OPERA TOR" is
intended to have less privileges than an "ADMIN", but still be able to help users with small issues such as forgotten passwords.except OSError:
print('Unable to create new user directory for user:' + username)
return False
return True
(bad code) Example Language: C 
seteuid(0);
/\* do some stuff \*/
seteuid(getuid());
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
AccessController.doPrivileged(new PrivilegedAction() {
public Object run() {
// privileged code goes here, for example:
System.loadLibrary("awt");
return null;
// nothing to return
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public enum Roles {
ADMIN,USER,GUEST
}
public void printDebugInfo(User requestingUser){
if(isAuthenticated(requestingUser)){
switch(requestingUser.role){
case GUEST:
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
default:
System.out.println(currentDebugState());
break;
}
}
else{
System.out.println("You must be logged in to perform this command");
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public enum Roles {
ADMIN,OPERATOR,USER,GUEST
}
public void resetPassword(User requestingUser, User user, String password ){
if(isAuthenticated(requestingUser)){
switch(requestingUser.role){
case GUEST:
St titl("Y tthidt f thi d")3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/269.html 3/5This code does not check the role of the user whose password is being reset. It is possible for an Operator to gain Admin privileges by
resetting the password of an Admin account and taking control of that account.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1555 Terminal privileges are not reset when a user logs out.
CVE-2001-1514 Does not properly pass security context to child processes in certain cases, allows privilege escalation.
CVE-2001-0128 Does not properly compute roles.
CVE-1999-1193 untrusted user placed in unix "wheel" group
CVE-2005-2741 Product allows users to grant themselves certain rights that can be used to escalate privileges.
CVE-2005-2496 Product uses group ID of a user instead of the group, causing it to run with dif ferent privileges. This is
resultant from some other unknown issue.
CVE-2004-0274 Product mistakenly assigns a particular status to an entity , leading to increased privileges.
CVE-2007-4217 FTP client program on a certain OS runs with setuid privileges and has a buf fer overflow . Most clients
do not need extra privileges, so an overflow is not a vulnerability for those clients.
CVE-2007-5159 OS incorrectly installs a program with setuid privileges, allowing users to gain privileges.
CVE-2008-4638 Composite: application running with high privileges ( CWE-250 ) allows user to specify a restricted file to
process, which generates a parsing error that leaks the contents of the file ( CWE-209 ).
CVE-2007-3931 Installation script installs some programs as setuid when they shouldn't be.
CVE-2002-1981 Roles have access to dangerous procedures (Accessible entities).
CVE-2002-1671 Untrusted object/method gets access to clipboard (Accessible entities).
CVE-2000-0315 Traceroute program allows unprivileged users to modify source address of packet (Accessible entities).
CVE-2000-0506 User with capability can prevent setuid program from dropping privileges (Unsafe privileged actions).
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Consider following the principle of separation of privilege. Require multiple conditions to be met before permitting access to a
system resource.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 901 SFP Primary Cluster: Privilege
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
case USER:
System.out.println("You are not authorized to perform this command");
break;
default:
setPassword(user,password);
break;
}
}
else{
System.out.println("You must be logged in to perform this command");
}
}3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/269.html 4/5MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1365 ICS Communications: Unreliability
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1373 ICS Engineering (Construction/Deployment): Trust Model Problems
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
CWE-269 is commonly misused. It can be conflated with "privilege escalation," which is a technical impact that is listed in many
low-information vulnerability reports [ REF-1287 ]. It is not useful for trend analysis.
Comments:
If an error or mistake allows privilege escalation, then use the CWE ID for that mistake. Avoid using CWE-269 when only phrases
such as "privilege escalation" or "gain privileges" are available, as these indicate technical impact of the vulnerability - not the root
cause weakness. If the root cause seems to be directly related to privileges, then examine the children of CWE-269 for additional
hints, such as Execution with Unnecessary Privileges ( CWE-250 ) or Incorrect Privilege Assignment ( CWE-266 ).
 Notes
Maintenance
The relationships between privileges, permissions, and actors (e.g. users and groups) need further refinement within the Research
view. One complication is that these concepts apply to two dif ferent pillars, related to control of resources ( CWE-664 ) and protection
mechanism failures ( CWE-693 ).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Privilege Management Error
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.08 BR
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-2 Req CR 3.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 2.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 2.1
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-122 Privilege Abuse
CAPEC-233 Privilege Escalation
CAPEC-58 Restful Privilege Elevation
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 16: Executing Code With
Too Much Privilege." Page 243. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Dropping
Privileges Permanently", Page 479. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-1287] MITRE. "Supplemental Details - 2022 CWE Top 25". Details of Problematic Mappings. 2022-06-28.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-06-29
(CWE 4.12, 2023-06-29)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
3/7/24, 2:54 PM CWE - CWE-269: Improper Privilege Management (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/269.html 5/5
 Submissions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names