3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-358: Improperly Implemented Security Check for Standard (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/358.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-358: Improperly Implemented Security Check for Standard
Weakness ID: 358
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not implement or incorrectly implements one or more security-relevant checks as specified by the design of a
standardized algorithm, protocol, or technique.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ChildOf 573 Improper Following of Specification by Caller
PeerOf 325 Missing Cryptographic Step
CanAlsoBe 290 Authentication Bypass by Spoofing
CanAlsoBe 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
ImplementationThis is an implementation error , in which the algorithm/technique requires certain security-related
behaviors or conditions that are not implemented or checked properly , thus causing a vulnerability .
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0862 Browser does not verify Basic Constraints of a certificate, even though it is required, allowing spoofing
of trusted certificates.
CVE-2002-0970 Browser does not verify Basic Constraints of a certificate, even though it is required, allowing spoofing
of trusted certificates.
CVE-2002-1407 Browser does not verify Basic Constraints of a certificate, even though it is required, allowing spoofing
of trusted certificates.
CVE-2005-0198 Logic error prevents some required conditions from being enforced during Challenge-Response
Authentication Mechanism with MD5 (CRAM-MD5).
CVE-2004-2163 Shared secret not verified in a RADIUS response packet, allowing authentication bypass by spoofing
server replies.
CVE-2005-2181 Insuf ficient verification in V oIP implementation, in violation of standard, allows spoofed messages.
CVE-2005-2182 Insuf ficient verification in V oIP implementation, in violation of standard, allows spoofed messages.
CVE-2005-2298 Security check not applied to all components, allowing bypass.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID NameAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-358: Improperly Implemented Security Check for Standard (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/358.html 2/2MemberOf 978 SFP Secondary Cluster: Implementation
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is a "missing step" error on the product side, which can overlap weaknesses such as insuf ficient verification and spoofing. It is
frequently found in cryptographic and authentication errors. It is sometimes resultant.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Improperly Implemented Security Check for Standard
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
