3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-488: Exposure of Data Element to Wrong Session (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/488.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-488: Exposure of Data Element to W rong Session
Weakness ID: 488
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not suf ficiently enforce boundaries between the states of dif ferent sessions, causing data to be provided to, or used
by, the wrong session.
 Extended Description
Data can "bleed" from one session to another through member variables of singleton objects, such as Servlets, and objects from a
shared pool.
In the case of Servlets, developers sometimes do not understand that, unless a Servlet implements the SingleThreadModel interface,
the Servlet is a singleton; there is only one instance of the Servlet, and that single instance is used and re-used to handle multiple
requests that are processed simultaneously by dif ferent threads. A common result is that developers use Servlet member fields in
such a way that one user may inadvertently see another user's data. In other words, storing user data in Servlet member fields
introduces a data access race condition.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
CanFollow 567 Unsynchronized Access to Shared Data in a Multithreaded Context
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1217 User Session Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following Servlet stores the value of a request parameter in a member field and then later echoes the parameter value to the
response output stream.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class GuestBook extends HttpServlet {
String name;
protected void doPost (HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) {
name = req.getParameter("name");
...
out.println(name + ", thanks for visiting!");
}
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-488: Exposure of Data Element to Wrong Session (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/488.html 2/3While this code will work perfectly in a single-user environment, if two users access the Servlet at approximately the same time, it is
possible for the two request handler threads to interleave in the following way: Thread 1: assign "Dick" to name Thread 2: assign
"Jane" to name Thread 1: print "Jane, thanks for visiting!" Thread 2: print "Jane, thanks for visiting!" Thereby showing the first user the
second user's name.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Protect the application's sessions from information leakage. Make sure that a session's data is not used or visible by other
sessions.
Phase: T esting
Use a static analysis tool to scan the code for information leakage vulnerabilities (e.g. Singleton Member Field).
Phase: Architecture and Design
In a multithreading environment, storing user data in Servlet member fields introduces a data access race condition. Do not use
member fields to store information in the Servlet.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 485 7PK - Encapsulation
MemberOf 882 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 14 - Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 965 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Session Management
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Data Leaking Between Users
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-59 Session Credential Falsification through Prediction
CAPEC-60 Reusing Session IDs (aka Session Replay)
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-488: Exposure of Data Element to Wrong Session (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/488.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names