3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-835: Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Inﬁnite Loop') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/835.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-835: Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Infinite Loop')
Weakness ID: 835
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains an iteration or loop with an exit condition that cannot be reached, i.e., an infinite loop.
 Extended Description
If the loop can be influenced by an attacker , this weakness could allow attackers to consume excessive resources such as CPU or
memory .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 834 Excessive Iteration
CanFollow 1322 Use of Blocking Code in Single-threaded, Non-blocking Context
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 438 Behavioral Problems
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Memory); DoS: Amplification
An infinite loop will cause unexpected consumption of resources, such as CPU cycles or memory . The
software's operation may slow down, or cause a long time to respond.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code the method processMessagesFromServer attempts to establish a connection to a server and read and process
messages from the server . The method uses a do/while loop to continue trying to establish the connection to the server when an
attempt fails.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int processMessagesFromServer(char \*hostaddr, int port) {
...
int servsock;
int connected;
struct sockaddr\_in servaddr;
// create socket to connect to server
servsock = socket( AF\_INET, SOCK\_STREAM, 0);
memset( &servaddr, 0, sizeof(servaddr));
servaddr.sin\_family = AF\_INET;
servaddr.sin\_port = htons(port);
servaddr.sin\_addr.s\_addr = inet\_addr(hostaddr);
do {
// establish connection to server
connected = connect(servsock, (struct sockaddr \*)&servaddr, sizeof(servaddr));
//if tdth dd f3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-835: Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Inﬁnite Loop') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/835.html 2/4However , this will create an infinite loop if the server does not respond. This infinite loop will consume system resources and can be
used to create a denial of service attack. To resolve this a counter should be used to limit the number of attempts to establish a
connection to the server , as in the following code.
Example 2
For this example, the method isReorderNeeded is part of a bookstore application that determines if a particular book needs to be
reordered based on the current inventory count and the rate at which the book is being sold.// if connected then read and process messages from server
if (connected > -1) {
// read and process messages
...
}
// keep trying to establish connection to the server
} while (connected < 0);
// close socket and return success or failure
...
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int processMessagesFromServer(char \*hostaddr, int port) {
...
// initialize number of attempts counter
int count = 0;
do {
// establish connection to server
connected = connect(servsock, (struct sockaddr \*)&servaddr, sizeof(servaddr));
// increment counter
count++;
// if connected then read and process messages from server
if (connected > -1) {
// read and process messages
...
}
// keep trying to establish connection to the server
// up to a maximum number of attempts
} while (connected < 0 && count < MAX\_ATTEMPTS);
// close socket and return success or failure
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public boolean isReorderNeeded(String bookISBN, int rateSold) {
boolean isReorder = false;
int minimumCount = 10;
int days = 0;
// get inventory count for book
int inventoryCount = inventory.getIventoryCount(bookISBN);
// find number of days until inventory count reaches minimum
while (inventoryCount > minimumCount) {
inventoryCount = inventoryCount - rateSold;
days++;
}
// if number of days within reorder timeframe
// set reorder return boolean to true
if (days > 0 && days < 5) {
isReorder = true;
}
return isReorder;
}3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-835: Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Inﬁnite Loop') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/835.html 3/4However , the while loop will become an infinite loop if the rateSold input parameter has a value of zero since the inventoryCount will
never fall below the minimumCount. In this case the input parameter should be validated to ensure that a value of zero does not
cause an infinite loop, as in the following code.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-22224 Chain: an operating system does not properly process malformed Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
Type/Length/V alue Identifiers (TL V) (CWE-703 ), which can cause the process to enter an infinite loop
(CWE-835 )
CVE-2022-25304 A Python machine communication platform did not account for receiving a malformed packet with a null
size, causing the receiving function to never update the message buf fer and be caught in an infinite
loop.
CVE-2011-1027 Chain: of f-by-one error ( CWE-193 ) leads to infinite loop ( CWE-835 ) using invalid hex-encoded
characters.
CVE-2011-1142 Chain: self-referential values in recursive definitions lead to infinite loop.
CVE-2011-1002 NULL UDP packet is never cleared from a queue, leading to infinite loop.
CVE-2006-6499 Chain: web browser crashes due to infinite loop - "bad looping logic [that relies on] floating point math
[CWE-1339 ] to exit the loop [ CWE-835 ]"
CVE-2010-4476 Floating point conversion routine cycles back and forth between two dif ferent values.
CVE-2010-4645 Floating point conversion routine cycles back and forth between two dif ferent values.
CVE-2010-2534 Chain: improperly clearing a pointer in a linked list leads to infinite loop.
CVE-2013-1591 Chain: an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) in the image size calculation causes an infinite loop ( CWE-835 )
which sequentially allocates buf fers without limits ( CWE-1325 ) until the stack is full.
CVE-2008-3688 Chain: A denial of service may be caused by an uninitialized variable ( CWE-457 ) allowing an infinite
loop ( CWE-835 ) resulting from a connection to an unresponsive server .
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-835
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Looping
Constructs", Page 327. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-835. 2016-
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public boolean isReorderNeeded(String bookISBN, int rateSold) {
...
// validate rateSold variable
if (rateSold < 1) {
return isReorder;
}
...
}3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-835: Loop with Unreachable Exit Condition ('Inﬁnite Loop') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/835.html 4/401. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-03-22
(CWE 1.12, 2011-03-30)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications