3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/476.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference
Weakness ID: 476
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A NULL pointer dereference occurs when the application dereferences a pointer that it expects to be valid, but is NULL, typically
causing a crash or exit.
 Extended Description
NULL pointer dereference issues can occur through a number of flaws, including race conditions, and simple programming omissions.
 Alternate T erms
NPD
null deref
nil pointer dereference: used for access of nil in Go programs
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
CanFollow 252 Unchecked Return V alue
CanFollow 789 Memory Allocation with Excessive Size V alue
CanFollow 1325 Improperly Controlled Sequential Memory Allocation
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
Go (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
NULL pointer dereferences usually result in the failure of the process unless exception handling (on
some platforms) is available and implemented. Even when exception handling is being used, it can
still be very dif ficult to return the software to a safe state of operation.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Read Memory; Modify Memory
In rare circumstances, when NULL is equivalent to the 0x0 memory address and privileged code can
access it, then writing or reading memory is possible, which may lead to code execution.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/476.html 2/5
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
While there are no complete fixes aside from conscientious programming, the following steps will go a long way to ensure that NULL
pointer dereferences do not occur .
If you are working with a multithreaded or otherwise asynchronous environment, ensure that proper locking APIs are used to lock
before the if statement; and unlock when it has finished.
Example 2
This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
If an attacker provides an address that appears to be well-formed, but the address does not resolve to a hostname, then the call to
gethostbyaddr() will return NULL. Since the code does not check the return value from gethostbyaddr ( CWE-252 ), a NULL pointer
dereference ( CWE-476 ) would then occur in the call to strcpy().
Note that this code is also vulnerable to a buf fer overflow ( CWE-119 ).
Example 3
In the following code, the programmer assumes that the system always has a property named "cmd" defined. If an attacker can
control the program's environment so that "cmd" is not defined, the program throws a NULL pointer exception when it attempts to call
the trim() method.
Example 4
This Android application has registered to handle a URL when sent an intent:(good code) 
if (pointer1 != NULL) {
/\* make use of pointer1 \*/
/\* ... \*/
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String cmd = System.getProperty("cmd");
cmd = cmd.trim();
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
IntentFilter filter = new IntentFilter("com.example.URLHandler.openURL");
MyReceiver receiver = new MyReceiver();
registerReceiver(receiver, filter);
...
public class UrlHandlerReceiver extends BroadcastReceiver {
@Override
public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {
if("com.example.URLHandler.openURL".equals(intent.getAction())) {
String URL = intent.getStringExtra("URLToOpen");
int length = URL.length();
...
}
}
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/476.html 3/5The application assumes the URL will always be included in the intent. When the URL is not present, the call to getStringExtra() will
return null, thus causing a null pointer exception when length() is called.
Example 5
Consider the following example of a typical client server exchange. The HandleRequest function is intended to perform a request and
use a defer to close the connection whenever the function returns.
If a user supplies a malformed request or violates the client policy , the Do method can return a nil response and a non-nil err .
This HandleRequest Function evaluates the close before checking the error . A deferred call's arguments are evaluated immediately ,
so the defer statement panics due to a nil response.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-3274 race condition causes a table to be corrupted if a timer activates while it is being modified, leading to
resultant NULL dereference; also involves locking.
CVE-2002-1912 large number of packets leads to NULL dereference
CVE-2005-0772 packet with invalid error status value triggers NULL dereference
CVE-2009-4895 Chain: race condition for an argument value, possibly resulting in NULL dereference
CVE-2020-29652 ssh component for Go allows clients to cause a denial of service (nil pointer dereference) against SSH
servers.
CVE-2009-2692 Chain: Use of an unimplemented network socket operation pointing to an uninitialized handler function
(CWE-456 ) causes a crash because of a null pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
CVE-2009-3547 Chain: race condition ( CWE-362 ) might allow resource to be released before operating on it, leading to
NULL dereference ( CWE-476 )
CVE-2009-3620 Chain: some unprivileged ioctls do not verify that a structure has been initialized before invocation,
leading to NULL dereference
CVE-2009-2698 Chain: IP and UDP layers each track the same value with dif ferent mechanisms that can get out of
sync, possibly resulting in a NULL dereference
CVE-2009-2692 Chain: uninitialized function pointers can be dereferenced allowing code execution
CVE-2009-0949 Chain: improper initialization of memory can lead to NULL dereference
CVE-2008-3597 Chain: game server can access player data structures before initialization has happened leading to
NULL dereference
CVE-2020-6078 Chain: The return value of a function returning a pointer is not checked for success ( CWE-252 )
resulting in the later use of an uninitialized variable ( CWE-456 ) and a null pointer dereference ( CWE-
476)
CVE-2008-0062 Chain: a message having an unknown message type may cause a reference to uninitialized memory
resulting in a null pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ) or dangling pointer ( CWE-825 ), possibly crashing the
system or causing heap corruption.
CVE-2008-5183 Chain: unchecked return value can lead to NULL dereference
CVE-2004-0079 SSL software allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via a crafted SSL/TLS
handshake that triggers a null dereference.
CVE-2004-0365 Network monitor allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via a malformed RADIUS
packet that triggers a null dereference.
CVE-2003-1013 Network monitor allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via a malformed Q.931,
which triggers a null dereference.
CVE-2003-1000 Chat client allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via a passive DCC request with
an invalid ID number , which causes a null dereference.
CVE-2004-0389 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) via malformed requests that trigger
a null dereference.
CVE-2004-0119 OS allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash from null dereference) or execute
arbitrary code via a crafted request during authentication protocol selection.
CVE-2004-0458 Game allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (server crash) via a missing argument,
which triggers a null pointer dereference.
CVE-2002-0401 Network monitor allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash) or execute arbitrary code
via malformed packets that cause a NULL pointer dereference.
CVE-2001-1559 Chain: System call returns wrong value ( CWE-393 ), leading to a resultant NULL dereference ( CWE-
476).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation}
(bad code) Example Language: Go 
func HandleRequest(client http.Client, request \*http.Request) (\*http.Response, error) {
response, err := client.Do(request)
defer response.Body.Close()
if err != nil {
return nil, err
}
...
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/476.html 4/5If all pointers that could have been modified are sanity-checked previous to use, nearly all NULL pointer dereferences can be
prevented.
Phase: Requirements
The choice could be made to use a language that is not susceptible to these issues.
Phase: Implementation
Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is non-null before acting upon it.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: Checking the return value of the function will typically be suf ficient, however beware of race conditions ( CWE-362 ) in a
concurrent environment. This solution does not handle the use of improperly initialized variables ( CWE-665 ).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Identify all variables and data stores that receive information from external sources, and apply input validation to make sure that
they are only initialized to expected values.
Phase: Implementation
Explicitly initialize all your variables and other data stores, either during declaration or just before the first usage.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
NULL pointer dereferences are frequently resultant from rarely encountered error conditions, since these are most
likely to escape detection during the testing phases.
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the program under
low memory conditions, run with insuf ficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable
connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior . If you trigger an
unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate
unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 730 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A9 - Denial of Service
MemberOf 737 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 4 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 871 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 03 - Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 971 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Pointer Use
MemberOf 1136 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 02. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/476.html 5/5MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Null Dereference
CLASP Null-pointer dereference
PLOVER Null Dereference (Null Pointer Dereference)
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A9 CWE More Specific Denial of Service
CER T C Secure Coding EXP34-C Exact Do not dereference null pointers
Software Fault Patterns SFP7 Faulty Pointer Use
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1031] "Null pointer / Null dereferencing". Wikipedia. 2019-07-15.
.
[REF-1032] "Null Reference Creation and Null Pointer Dereference". Apple.
. URL validated: 2023-
04-07 .
[REF-1033] "NULL Pointer Dereference [CWE-476]". ImmuniW eb. 2012-09-11. < https://www .immuniweb.com/vulnerability/null-
pointer-dereference.html >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
