3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1189: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1189.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1189: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
Weakness ID: 1189
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The System-On-a-Chip (SoC) does not properly isolate shared resources between trusted and untrusted agents.
 Extended Description
A System-On-a-Chip (SoC) has a lot of functionality , but it may have a limited number of pins or pads. A pin can only perform one
function at a time. However , it can be configured to perform multiple dif ferent functions. This technique is called pin multiplexing.
Similarly , several resources on the chip may be shared to multiplex and support dif ferent features or functions. When such resources
are shared between trusted and untrusted agents, untrusted agents may be able to access the assets intended to be accessed only
by the trusted agents.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 653 Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization
ParentOf 1303 Non-T ransparent Sharing of Microarchitectural Resources
PeerOf 1331 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC)
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
PeerOf 1331 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
If resources being used by a trusted user are shared with an untrusted user , the untrusted user may
be able to modify the functionality of the shared resource of the trusted user .
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation
The functionality of the shared resource may be intentionally degraded.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider the following SoC design. The Hardware Root of Trust (HRoT) local SRAM is memory mapped in the core{0-N} address
space. The HRoT allows or disallows access to private memory ranges, thus allowing the sram to function as a mailbox for
communication between untrusted and trusted HRoT partitions.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1189: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1189.html 2/3
We assume that the threat is from malicious software in the untrusted domain. W e assume this software has access to the core{0-N}
memory map and can be running at any privilege level on the untrusted cores. The capability of this threat in this example is
communication to and from the mailbox region of SRAM modulated by the hrot\_iface. To address this threat, information must not
enter or exit the shared region of SRAM through hrot\_iface when in secure or privileged mode.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-8698 Processor has improper isolation of shared resources allowing for information disclosure.
CVE-2019-6260 Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) device implements Advanced High-performance Bus (AHB)
bridges that do not require authentication for arbitrary read and write access to the BMC's physical
address space from the host, and possibly the network [ REF-1138 ].
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
When sharing resources, avoid mixing agents of varying trust levels.
Untrusted agents should not share resources with trusted agents.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Pre-silicon / post-silicon: Test access to shared systems resources (memory ranges, control registers, etc.) from untrusted
software to verify that the assets are not incorrectly exposed to untrusted agents. Note that access to shared resources can be
dynamically allowed or revoked based on system flows. Security testing should cover such dynamic shared resource allocation
and access control modification flows.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-124 Shared Resource Manipulation
 References
[REF-1036] Ali Abbasi and Majid Hashemi. "Ghost in the PLC Designing an Undetectable Programmable Logic Controller Rootkit
via Pin Control Attack". 2016. < https://www .blackhat.com/docs/eu-16/materials/eu-16-Abbasi-Ghost-In-The-PLC-Designing-An-
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-1189: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1189.html 3/3Undetectable-Programmable-Logic-Controller-Rootkit-wp.pdf >.
[REF-1138] Stewart Smith. "CVE-2019-6260: Gaining control of BMC from the host processor". 2019.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-15
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-07-16 Tortuga Logic
Provided Demonstrative Example for Hardware Root of Trust
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel
Corporation
provided observed example
2022-04-18 Hareesh Khattri Intel
Corporation
changed detection method
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names