3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-546: Suspicious Comment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/546.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-546: Suspicious Comment
Weakness ID: 546
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code contains comments that suggest the presence of bugs, incomplete functionality , or weaknesses.
 Extended Description
Many suspicious comments, such as BUG, HACK, FIXME, LA TER, LA TER2, TODO, in the code indicate missing security functionality
and checking. Others indicate code problems that programmers should fix, such as hard-coded variables, error handling, not using
stored procedures, and performance issues.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1078 Inappropriate Source Code Style or Formatting
PeerOf 615 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation
Suspicious comments could be an indication that there are problems in the source code that may need to be
fixed and is an indication of poor quality . This could lead to further bugs and the introduction of weaknesses.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following excerpt demonstrates the use of a suspicious comment in an incomplete code block that may have security
repercussions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Documentation
Remove comments that suggest the presence of bugs, incomplete functionality , or weaknesses, before deploying the
application.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
if (user == null) {
// TODO: Handle null user condition.
}3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-546: Suspicious Comment (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/546.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
