3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-501: Trust Boundary Violation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/501.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-501: T rust Boundary V iolation
Weakness ID: 501
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product mixes trusted and untrusted data in the same data structure or structured message.
 Extended Description
A trust boundary can be thought of as line drawn through a program. On one side of the line, data is untrusted. On the other side of
the line, data is assumed to be trustworthy . The purpose of validation logic is to allow data to safely cross the trust boundary - to move
from untrusted to trusted. A trust boundary violation occurs when a program blurs the line between what is trusted and what is
untrusted. By combining trusted and untrusted data in the same data structure, it becomes easier for programmers to mistakenly trust
unvalidated data.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 664 Improper Control of a Resource Through its Lifetime
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 265 Privilege Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code accepts an HTTP request and stores the username parameter in the HTTP session object before checking to
ensure that the user has been authenticated.
Without well-established and maintained trust boundaries, programmers will inevitably lose track of which pieces of data have been
validated and which have not. This confusion will eventually allow some data to be used without first being validated.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
usrname = request.getParameter("usrname");
if (session.getAttribute(ATTR\_USR) == null) {
session.setAttribute(ATTR\_USR, usrname);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
usrname = request.Item("usrname");
if (session.Item(ATTR\_USR) == null) {
session.Add(ATTR\_USR, usrname);
}3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-501: Trust Boundary Violation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/501.html 2/2
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 485 7PK - Encapsulation
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Trust Boundary V iolation
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
