3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1290: Incorrect Decoding of Security Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1290.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1290: Incorrect Decoding of Security Identifiers
Weakness ID: 1290
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product implements a decoding mechanism to decode certain bus-transaction signals to security identifiers. If the decoding is
implemented incorrectly , then untrusted agents can now gain unauthorized access to the asset.
 Extended Description
In a System-On-Chip (SoC), various integrated circuits and hardware engines generate transactions such as to access (reads/writes)
assets or perform certain actions (e.g., reset, fetch, compute, etc.). Among various types of message information, a typical transaction
is comprised of source identity (to identify the originator of the transaction) and a destination identity (to route the transaction to the
respective entity). Sometimes the transactions are qualified with a security identifier . The security identifier helps the destination agent
decide on the set of allowed actions (e.g., access an asset for read and writes). A decoder decodes the bus transactions to map
security identifiers into necessary access-controls/protections.
A common weakness that can exist in this scenario is incorrect decoding because an untrusted agent's security identifier is decoded
into a trusted agent's security identifier . Thus, an untrusted agent previously without access to an asset can now gain access to the
asset.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1294 Insecure Security Identifier Mechanism
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Bus/Interface Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Quality Degradation High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a system that has four bus masters and a decoder . The decoder is supposed to decode every bus transaction and assign a
corresponding security identifier . The security identifier is used to determine accesses to the assets. The bus transaction that containsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1290: Incorrect Decoding of Security Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1290.html 2/3the security information is Bus\_transaction [15:14], and the bits 15 through 14 contain the security identifier information. The table
below provides bus masters as well as their security identifiers and trust assumptions:
Bus Master Security Identifier Decoding Trust Assumptions
Master\_0 "00" Untrusted
Master\_1 "01" Trusted
Master\_2 "10" Untrusted
Master\_3 "11" Untrusted
The assets are the AES-Key registers for encryption or decryption. The key is 128 bits implemented as a set of four 32-bit registers.
The AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY is used to define which agents with a security identifier in the transaction can access the AES-key
registers. The size of the security identifier is 4 bits (i.e., bit 3 through 0). Each bit in these 4 bits defines a security identifier . There are
only 4 security identifiers that are allowed accesses to the AES-key registers. The number of the bit when set (i.e., "1") allows
respective action from an agent whose identity matches the number of the bit. If clear (i.e., "0"), disallows the respective action to that
corresponding agent.
Register Field description
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0AES key [0:31] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_1AES key [32:63] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_2AES key [64:95] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3AES key [96:127] for encryption or decryption
Default 0x00000000
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLCY[31:4] Default 0x00000000
[3:0]-0x01 agent with Security Identified "1" has access to AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_0 through
AES\_ENC\_DEC\_KEY\_3 registers
The following Pseudo code outlines the process of checking the value of the Security Identifier within the
AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY register:
Below is a decoder's Pseudo code that only checks for bit [14] of the bus transaction to determine what Security Identifier it must
assign.
The security identifier is two bits, but the decoder code above only checks the value of one bit. Two Masters have their bit 0 set to "1"
- Master\_1 and Master\_3. Master\_1 is trusted, while Master\_3 is not. The code above would therefore allow an untrusted agent,
Master\_3, access to the AES-Key registers in addition to intended trusted Master\_1.
The decoder should check for the entire size of the security identifier in the bus-transaction signal to assign a corresponding security
identifier . The following is good Pseudo code:
 Potential Mitigations(informative) Example Language: Other 
If (AES\_KEY\_ACCESS\_POLICY[Security\_Identifier] == "1")
Allow access to AES-Key registers
Else
Deny access to AES-Key registers
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
If (Bus\_transaction[14] == "1")
Security\_Identifier == "1"
Else
Security\_Identifier == "0"
(good code) Example Language: Other 
If (Bus\_transaction[15:14] == "00")
Security\_Identifier == "0"
If (Bus\_transaction[15:14] == "01")
Security\_Identifier == "1"
If (Bus\_transaction[15:14] == "10")
Security\_Identifier == "2"
If (Bus\_transaction[15:14] == "11")
Security\_Identifier == "3"3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1290: Incorrect Decoding of Security Identiﬁers (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1290.html 3/3Phase: Architecture and Design
Security identifier decoders must be reviewed for design consistency and common weaknesses.
Phase: Implementation
Access and programming flows must be tested in pre-silicon and post-silicon testing in order to check for this weakness.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-04-29
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications
