3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-486: Comparison of Classes by Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/486.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-486: Comparison of Classes by Name
Weakness ID: 486
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product compares classes by name, which can cause it to use the wrong class when multiple classes can have the same name.
 Extended Description
If the decision to trust the methods and data of an object is based on the name of a class, it is possible for malicious users to send
objects of the same name as trusted classes and thereby gain the trust af forded to known classes and types.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1025 Comparison Using W rong Factors
PeerOf 386 Symbolic Name not Mapping to Correct Object
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
If a product relies solely on the name of an object to determine identity , it may execute the incorrect
or unintended code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, the expression in the if statement compares the class of the inputClass object to a trusted class by comparing the
class names.
However , multiple classes can have the same name therefore comparing an object's class by name can allow untrusted classes of the
same name as the trusted class to be use to execute unintended or incorrect code. To compare the class of an object to the intended
class the getClass() method and the comparison operator "==" should be used to ensure the correct trusted class is used, as shown
in the following example.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
if (inputClass.getClass().getName().equals("TrustedClassName")) {
// Do something assuming you trust inputClass
// ...
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
if (inputClass.getClass() == TrustedClass.class) {3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-486: Comparison of Classes by Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/486.html 2/3Example 2
In this example, the Java class, TrustedClass, overrides the equals method of the parent class Object to determine equivalence of
objects of the class. The overridden equals method first determines if the object, obj, is the same class as the TrustedClass object and
then compares the object's fields to determine if the objects are equivalent.
However , the equals method compares the class names of the object, obj, and the TrustedClass object to determine if they are the
same class. As with the previous example using the name of the class to compare the class of objects can lead to the execution of
unintended or incorrect code if the object passed to the equals method is of another class with the same name. To compare the class
of an object to the intended class, the getClass() method and the comparison operator "==" should be used to ensure the correct
trusted class is used, as shown in the following example.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use class equivalency to determine type. Rather than use the class name to determine if an object is of a given type, use the
getClass() method, and == operator .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 485 7PK - Encapsulation
MemberOf 849 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 6 - Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
// Do something assuming you trust inputClass
// ...
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class TrustedClass {
...
@Override
public boolean equals(Object obj) {
boolean isEquals = false;
// first check to see if the object is of the same class
if (obj.getClass().getName().equals(this.getClass().getName())) {
// then compare object fields
...
if (...) {
isEquals = true;
}
}
return isEquals;
}
...
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public boolean equals(Object obj) {
...
// first check to see if the object is of the same class
if (obj.getClass() == this.getClass()) {
...
}
...
}3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-486: Comparison of Classes by Name (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/486.html 3/3MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1139 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 05. Object Orientation (OBJ)
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Comparing Classes by Name
CLASP Comparing classes by name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)OBJ09-J Compare classes and not class names
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
