3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/209.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 209
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product generates an error message that includes sensitive information about its environment, users, or associated data.
 Extended Description
The sensitive information may be valuable information on its own (such as a password), or it may be useful for launching other , more
serious attacks. The error message may be created in dif ferent ways:
self-generated: the source code explicitly constructs the error message and delivers it
externally-generated: the external environment, such as a language interpreter , handles the error and constructs its own
message, whose contents are not under direct control by the programmer
An attacker may use the contents of error messages to help launch another , more focused attack. For example, an attempt to exploit
a path traversal weakness ( CWE-22 ) might yield the full pathname of the installed application. In turn, this could be used to select the
proper number of ".." sequences to navigate to the targeted file. An attack using SQL injection ( CWE-89 ) might not initially succeed,
but an error message could reveal the malformed query , which would expose query logic and possibly even passwords or other
sensitive information used within the query .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
ParentOf 210 Self-generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
ParentOf 211 Externally-Generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
ParentOf 550 Server-generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
PeerOf 1295 Debug Messages Revealing Unnecessary Information
CanFollow 600 Uncaught Exception in Servlet
CanFollow 756 Missing Custom Error Page
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
System Configuration
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Often Prevalent)
Java (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality Technical Impact: Read Application DataAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/209.html 2/5Often this will either reveal sensitive information which may be used for a later attack or private
information stored in the server .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, sensitive information might be printed depending on the exception that occurs.
If an exception related to SQL is handled by the catch, then the output might contain sensitive information such as SQL query
structure or private information. If this output is redirected to a web user , this may represent a security problem.
Example 2
This code tries to open a database connection, and prints any exceptions that occur .
If an exception occurs, the printed message exposes the location of the configuration file the script is using. An attacker can use this
information to target the configuration file (perhaps exploiting a Path Traversal weakness). If the file can be read, the attacker could
gain credentials for accessing the database. The attacker may also be able to replace the file with a malicious one, causing the
application to use an arbitrary database.
Example 3
The following code generates an error message that leaks the full pathname of the configuration file.
If this code is running on a server , such as a web application, then the person making the request should not know what the full
pathname of the configuration directory is. By submitting a username that does not produce a $file that exists, an attacker could get
this pathname. It could then be used to exploit path traversal or symbolic link following problems that may exist elsewhere in the
application.
Example 4
In the example below , the method getUserBankAccount retrieves a bank account object from a database using the supplied
username and account number to query the database. If an SQLException is raised when querying the database, an error message is
created and output to a log file.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
/.../
}
catch (Exception e) {
System.out.println(e);
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
try {
openDbConnection();
}
//print exception message that includes exception message and configuration file location
catch (Exception $e) {
echo 'Caught exception: ', $e->getMessage(), '\n';
echo 'Check credentials in config file at: ', $Mysql\_config\_location, '\n';
}
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$ConfigDir = "/home/myprog/config";
$uname = GetUserInput("username");
# avoid CWE-22, CWE-78, others.
ExitError("Bad hacker!") if ($uname !~ /^\w+$/);
$file = "$ConfigDir/$uname.txt";
if (! (-e $file)) {
ExitError("Error: $file does not exist");
}
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public BankAccount getUserBankAccount(String username, String accountNumber) {
BankAccount userAccount = null;
String query = null;
try {
if (isAuthorizedUser(username)) {
query = "SELECT \* FROM accounts WHERE owner = "
+ username + " AND accountID = " + accountNumber;
DatabaseManager dbManager = new DatabaseManager();
Connection conn = dbManager.getConnection();
Stt ttt tStt t()3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/209.html 3/5The error message that is created includes information about the database query that may contain sensitive information about the
database or query logic. In this case, the error message will expose the table name and column names used in the database. This
data could be used to simplify other attacks, such as SQL injection ( CWE-89 ) to directly access the database.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-2049 POP3 server reveals a password in an error message after multiple APOP commands are sent. Might
be resultant from another weakness.
CVE-2007-5172 Program reveals password in error message if attacker can trigger certain database errors.
CVE-2008-4638 Composite: application running with high privileges ( CWE-250 ) allows user to specify a restricted file to
process, which generates a parsing error that leaks the contents of the file ( CWE-209 ).
CVE-2008-1579 Existence of user names can be determined by requesting a nonexistent blog and reading the error
message.
CVE-2007-1409 Direct request to library file in web application triggers pathname leak in error message.
CVE-2008-3060 Malformed input to login page causes leak of full path when IMAP call fails.
CVE-2005-0603 Malformed regexp syntax leads to information exposure in error message.
CVE-2017-9615 verbose logging stores admin credentials in a world-readablelog file
CVE-2018-1999036 SSH password for private key stored in build log
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience and no one else. The
messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic (which can confuse users) or being too detailed (which may
reveal more than intended). The messages should not reveal the methods that were used to determine the error . Attackers can
use detailed information to refine or optimize their original attack, thereby increasing their chances of success.
If errors must be captured in some detail, record them in log messages, but consider what could occur if the log messages can
be viewed by attackers. Highly sensitive information such as passwords should never be saved to log files.
Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip of f an attacker about internal state, such as whether a user account
exists or not.
Phase: Implementation
Handle exceptions internally and do not display errors containing potentially sensitive information to a user .
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
Use naming conventions and strong types to make it easier to spot when sensitive data is being used. When creating structures,
objects, or other complex entities, separate the sensitive and non-sensitive data as much as possible.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This makes it easier to spot places in the code where data is being used that is unencrypted.
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
Phase: System Configuration
Where available, configure the environment to use less verbose error messages. For example, in PHP , disable the
display\_errors setting during configuration, or at runtime using the error\_reporting() function.
Phase: System Configuration
Create default error pages or messages that do not leak any information.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
ResultSet queryResult = stmt.executeQuery(query);
userAccount = (BankAccount)queryResult.getObject(accountNumber);
}
} catch (SQLException ex) {
String logMessage = "Unable to retrieve account information from database,\nquery: " + query;
Logger.getLogger(BankManager.class.getName()).log(Level.SEVERE, logMessage, ex);
}
return userAccount;
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/209.html 4/5Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness generally requires domain-specific interpretation using manual analysis. However , the number of potential error
conditions may be too large to cover completely within limited time constraints.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Analysis
Automated methods may be able to detect certain idioms automatically , such as exposed stack traces or pathnames, but
violation of business rules or privacy requirements is not typically feasible.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Error conditions may be triggered with a stress-test by calling the software simultaneously from a large number of threads or
processes, and look for evidence of any unexpected behavior .
Effectiveness: Moderate
Manual Dynamic Analysis
Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the program under
low memory conditions, run with insuf ficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable
connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior . If you trigger an
unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate
unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 717 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A6 - Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 751 2009 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 801 2010 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 815 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 880 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 12 - Exceptions and Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 933 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A5 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1032 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/209.html 5/5Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Accidental leaking of sensitive information through error
messages
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A6 CWE More
SpecificInformation Leakage and Improper Error Handling
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A7 CWE More
SpecificImproper Error Handling
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A10 CWE More
SpecificInsecure Configuration Management
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR01-J Do not allow exceptions to expose sensitive information
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-215 Fuzzing for application mapping
CAPEC-463 Padding Oracle Crypto Attack
CAPEC-54 Query System for Information
CAPEC-7 Blind SQL Injection
 References
[REF-174] W eb Application Security Consortium. "Information Leakage".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-175] Brian Chess and Jacob W est. "Secure Programming with Static Analysis". Section 9.2, Page 326. Addison-W esley .
2007.
[REF-176] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 16, "General Good Practices." Page 415. 1st
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2001-11-13.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 11: Failure to Handle
Errors Correctly ." Page 183. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 12: Information Leakage."
Page 191. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-179] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 16 - Information Exposure Through an Error Message". SANS Software
Security Institute. 2010-03-17. < http://software-security .sans.org/blog/2010/03/17/top-25-series-rank-16-information-exposure-
through-an-error-message >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Overly V erbose
Error Messages", Page 75. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2022-07-11 Nick Johnston
Identified incorrect language tag in demonstrative example.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names