3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-214: Invocation of Process Using Visible Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/214.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-214: Invocation of Process Using V isible Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 214
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A process is invoked with sensitive command-line arguments, environment variables, or other elements that can be seen by other
processes on the operating system.
 Extended Description
Many operating systems allow a user to list information about processes that are owned by other users. Other users could see
information such as command line arguments or environment variable settings. When this data contains sensitive information such as
credentials, it might allow other users to launch an attack against the product or related resources.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 497 Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere
PeerOf 526 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in an Environment V ariable
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the example below , the password for a keystore file is read from a system property .
If the property is defined on the command line when the program is invoked (using the -D... syntax), the password may be displayed
in the OS process list.
 Observed ExamplesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String keystorePass = System.getProperty("javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword");
if (keystorePass == null) {
System.err.println("ERROR: Keystore password not specified.");
System.exit(-1);
}
...3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-214: Invocation of Process Using Visible Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/214.html 2/2Reference Description
CVE-2005-1387 password passed on command line
CVE-2005-2291 password passed on command line
CVE-2001-1565 username/password on command line allows local users to view via "ps" or other process listing
programs
CVE-2004-1948 Username/password on command line allows local users to view via "ps" or other process listing
programs.
CVE-1999-1270 PGP passphrase provided as command line argument.
CVE-2004-1058 Kernel race condition allows reading of environment variables of a process that is still spawning.
CVE-2021-32638 Code analysis product passes access tokens as a command-line parameter or through an environment
variable, making them visible to other processes via the ps command.
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
Under-studied, especially environment variables.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Process information infoleak to other processes
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
