3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1280: Access Control Check Implemented After Asset is Accessed (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1280.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1280: Access Control Check Implemented After Asset is Accessed
Weakness ID: 1280
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product's hardware-based access control check occurs after the asset has been accessed.
 Extended Description
The product implements a hardware-based access control check. The asset should be accessible only after the check is successful.
If, however , this operation is not atomic and the asset is accessed before the check is complete, the security of the system may be
compromised.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
ChildOf 696 Incorrect Behavior Order
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Verilog (Undetermined Prevalence)
VHDL (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Modify Application Data; Read Application Data; Gain Privileges or
Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Assume that the module foo\_bar implements a protected register . The register content is the asset. Only transactions made by user id
(indicated by signal usr\_id) 0x4 are allowed to modify the register contents. The signal grant\_access is used to provide access.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
module foo\_bar(data\_out, usr\_id, data\_in, clk, rst\_n);
output reg [7:0] data\_out;
input wire [2:0] usr\_id;
input wire [7:0] data\_in;
itilkt3/7/24, 2:47 PM CWE - CWE-1280: Access Control Check Implemented After Asset is Accessed (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1280.html 2/2This code uses V erilog blocking assignments for data\_out and grant\_access. Therefore, these assignments happen sequentially (i.e.,
data\_out is updated to new value first, and grant\_access is updated the next cycle) and not in parallel. Therefore, the asset data\_out
is allowed to be modified even before the access control check is complete and grant\_access signal is set. Since grant\_access does
not have a reset value, it will be meta-stable and will randomly go to either 0 or 1.
Flipping the order of the assignment of data\_out and grant\_access should solve the problem. The correct snippet of code is shown
below .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Implement the access control check first. Access should only be given to asset if agent is authorized.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1410 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient Control Flow Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-12
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
input wire clk, rst\_n;
wire grant\_access;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n)
begin
if (!rst\_n)
data\_out = 0;
else
data\_out = (grant\_access) ? data\_in : data\_out;
assign grant\_access = (usr\_id == 3'h4) ? 1'b1 : 1'b0;
end
endmodule
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n)
begin
if (!rst\_n)
data\_out = 0;
else
assign grant\_access = (usr\_id == 3'h4) ? 1'b1 : 1'b0;
data\_out = (grant\_access) ? data\_in : data\_out;
end
endmodule