3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-647: Use of Non-Canonical URL Paths for Authorization Decisions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/647.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-647: Use of Non-Canonical URL Paths for Authorization Decisions
Weakness ID: 647
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product defines policy namespaces and makes authorization decisions based on the assumption that a URL is canonical. This
can allow a non-canonical URL to bypass the authorization.
 Extended Description
If an application defines policy namespaces and makes authorization decisions based on the URL, but it does not require or convert
to a canonical URL before making the authorization decision, then it opens the application to attack. For example, if the application
only wants to allow access to http://www .example.com/mypage, then the attacker might be able to bypass this restriction using
equivalent URLs such as:
http://WWW .EXAMPLE.COM/mypage
http://www .example.com/%6Dypage (alternate encoding)
http://192.168.1.1/mypage (IP address)
http://www .example.com/mypage/ (trailing /)
http://www .example.com:80/mypage
Therefore it is important to specify access control policy that is based on the path information in some canonical form with all alternate
encodings rejected (which can be accomplished by a default deny rule).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 863 Incorrect Authorization
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker may be able to bypass the authorization mechanism to gain access to the otherwise-
protected URL.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
If a non-canonical URL is used, the server may choose to return the contents of the file, instead of
pre-processing the file (e.g. as a program).
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:06 PM CWE - CWE-647: Use of Non-Canonical URL Paths for Authorization Decisions (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/647.html 2/2Example from CAPEC (CAPEC ID: 4, "Using Alternative IP Address Encodings"). An attacker identifies an application server that
applies a security policy based on the domain and application name, so the access control policy covers authentication and
authorization for anyone accessing http://example.domain:8080/application. However , by putting in the IP address of the host the
application authentication and authorization controls may be bypassed http://192.168.0.1:8080/application. The attacker relies on the
victim applying policy to the namespace abstraction and not having a default deny policy in place to manage exceptions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Make access control policy based on path information in canonical form. Use very restrictive regular expressions to validate that
the path is in the expected form.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Reject all alternate path encodings that are not in the expected canonical form.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 845 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 2 - Input V alidation and
Data Sanitization (IDS)
MemberOf 949 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Endpoint Authentication
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)IDS02-J Canonicalize path names before validating them
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-01-30
(CWE Draft 8, 2008-01-30)Evgeny Lebanidze Cigital
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
