3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-779: Logging of Excessive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/779.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-779: Logging of Excessive Data
Weakness ID: 779
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product logs too much information, making log files hard to process and possibly hindering recovery ef forts or forensic analysis
after an attack.
 Extended Description
While logging is a good practice in general, and very high levels of logging are appropriate for debugging stages of development, too
much logging in a production environment might hinder a system administrator's ability to detect anomalous conditions. This can
provide cover for an attacker while attempting to penetrate a system, clutter the audit trail for forensic analysis, or make it more
difficult to debug problems in a production environment.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 400 Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1210 Audit / Logging Errors
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Operation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource Consumption (Other)
Log files can become so large that they consume excessive resources, such as disk and CPU,
which can hinder the performance of the system.
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
Logging too much information can make the log files of less use to forensics analysts and
developers when trying to diagnose a problem or recover from an attack.
Non-RepudiationTechnical Impact: Hide Activities
If system administrators are unable to ef fectively process log files, attempted attacks may go
undetected, possibly leading to eventual system compromise.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Low
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-0421 server records a large amount of data to the server log when it receives malformed headers
CVE-2002-1154 chain: application does not restrict access to front-end for updates, which allows attacker to fill the error
log
 Potential MitigationsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-779: Logging of Excessive Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/779.html 2/2Phase: Architecture and Design
Suppress large numbers of duplicate log messages and replace them with periodic summaries. For example, syslog may
include an entry that states "last message repeated X times" when recording repeated events.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Support a maximum size for the log file that can be controlled by the administrator . If the maximum size is reached, the admin
should be notified. Also, consider reducing functionality of the product. This may result in a denial-of-service to legitimate product
users, but it will prevent the product from adversely impacting the entire system.
Phase: Implementation
Adjust configurations appropriately when the product is transitioned from a debug state to production.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 7.2
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.2
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-07-02
(CWE 1.5, 2009-07-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
