3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-422: Unprotected Windows Messaging Channel ('Shatter') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/422.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-422: Unprotected W indows Messaging Channel ('Shatter')
Weakness ID: 422
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly verify the source of a message in the Windows Messaging System while running at elevated privileges,
creating an alternate channel through which an attacker can directly send a message to the product.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 360 Trust of System Event Data
ChildOf 420 Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0971 Bypass GUI and access restricted dialog box.
CVE-2002-1230 Gain privileges via Windows message.
CVE-2003-0350 A control allows a change to a pointer for a callback function using Windows message.
CVE-2003-0908 Product launches Help functionality while running with raised privileges, allowing command execution
using Windows message to access "open file" dialog.
CVE-2004-0213 Attacker uses Shatter attack to bypass GUI-enforced protection for CVE-2003-0908.
CVE-2004-0207 User can call certain API functions to modify certain properties of privileged programs.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Always verify and authenticate the source of the message.
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 953 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Endpoint Authentication
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-422: Unprotected Windows Messaging Channel ('Shatter') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/422.html 2/2Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
Overlaps privilege errors and UI errors.
Research Gap
Possibly under-reported, probably under-studied. It is suspected that a number of publicized vulnerabilities that involve local
privilege escalation on Windows systems may be related to Shatter attacks, but they are not labeled as such.
Alternate channel attacks likely exist in other operating systems and messaging models, e.g. in privileged X Windows applications,
but examples are not readily available.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unprotected Windows Messaging Channel ('Shatter')
Software Fault Patterns SFP30 Missing endpoint authentication
 References
[REF-402] Paget. "Exploiting design flaws in the Win32 API for privilege escalation. Or ... Shatter Attacks - How to break
Windows". 2002-08. < http://web.archive.org/web/20060115174629/http://security .tombom.co.uk/shatter .html >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Design Review ."
Page 34. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 12, "Shatter
Attacks", Page 694. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications