3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-428: Unquoted Search Path or Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/428.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-428: Unquoted Search Path or Element
Weakness ID: 428
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a search path that contains an unquoted element, in which the element contains whitespace or other separators.
This can cause the product to access resources in a parent path.
 Extended Description
If a malicious individual has access to the file system, it is possible to elevate privileges by inserting such a file as "C:\Program.exe" to
be run by a privileged program making use of WinExec.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
PeerOf 426 Untrusted Search Path
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1219 File Handling Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Windows NT (Sometimes Prevalent)
macOS (Rarely Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2005-1185 Small handful of others. Program doesn't quote the "C:\Program Files\" path when calling a program to
be executed - or any other path with a directory or file whose name contains a space - so attacker can
put a malicious program.exe into C:.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
UINT errCode = WinExec( "C:\\Program Files\\Foo\\Bar", SW\_SHOW );3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-428: Unquoted Search Path or Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/428.html 2/3CVE-2005-2938 CreateProcess() and CreateProcessAsUser() can be misused by applications to allow "program.exe"
style attacks in C:
CVE-2000-1128 Applies to "Common Files" folder , with a malicious common.exe, instead of "Program
Files"/program.exe.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Properly quote the full search path before executing a program on the system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Functional Areas
Program Invocation
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1403 Comprehensive Categorization: Exposed Resource
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
This weakness could apply to any OS that supports spaces in filenames, especially any OS that make it easy for a user to insert
spaces into filenames or folders, such as Windows. While spaces are technically supported in Unix, the practice is generally
avoided. .
Maintenance
This weakness primarily involves the lack of quoting, which is not explicitly stated as a part of CWE-116 . CWE-116 also describes
output in light of structured messages, but the generation of a filename or search path (as in this weakness) might not be considered
a structured message.
An additional complication is the relationship to control spheres. Unlike untrusted search path ( CWE-426 ), which inherently involves
control over the definition of a control sphere, this entry concerns a fixed control sphere in which some part of the sphere may be
under attacker control. This is not a clean fit under CWE-668 or CWE-610 , which suggests that the control sphere model needs
enhancement or clarification.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-428: Unquoted Search Path or Element (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/428.html 3/3PLOVER Unquoted Search Path or Element
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "Process
Loading", Page 654. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications