3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-288: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/288.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-288: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
Weakness ID: 288
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A product requires authentication, but the product has an alternate path or channel that does not require authentication.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function
ParentOf 425 Direct Request ('Forced Browsing')
ParentOf 1299 Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface
PeerOf 420 Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Architecture and DesignThis is often seen in web applications that assume that access to a particular CGI program can only be
obtained through a "front" screen, when the supporting programs are directly accessible. But this
problem is not just in web apps.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Register SECURE\_ME is located at address 0xF00. A mirror of this register called COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is at location 0x800F00.
The register SECURE\_ME is protected from malicious agents and only allows access to select, while COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is
not.
Access control is implemented using an allowlist (as indicated by acl\_oh\_allowlist). The identity of the initiator of the transaction is
indicated by the one hot input, incoming\_id. This is checked against the acl\_oh\_allowlist (which contains a list of initiators that are
allowed to access the asset).
Though this example is shown in V erilog, it will apply to VHDL as well.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(informative) Example Language: Verilog 
module foo\_bar(data\_out, data\_in, incoming\_id, address, clk, rst\_n);
output [31:0] data\_out;
input [31:0] data\_in, incoming\_id, address;
input clk, rst\_n;
wire write\_auth, addr\_auth;
reg [31:0] data\_out, acl\_oh\_allowlist, q;
assign write\_auth = | (incoming\_id & acl\_oh\_allowlist) ? 1 : 0;
always @\*
acl\_oh\_allowlist <= 32'h8312;
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n)
if (!rst\_n)
begin
<32'h03/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-288: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/288.html 2/3The bugged line of code is repeated in the Bad example above. W eakness arises from the fact that the SECURE\_ME register can be
modified by writing to the shadow register COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME, the address of COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME should also be
included in the check. That buggy line of code should instead be replaced as shown in the Good Code Snippet below .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-1179 Router allows remote attackers to read system logs without authentication by directly connecting to the
login screen and typing certain control characters.
CVE-1999-1454 Attackers with physical access to the machine may bypass the password prompt by pressing the ESC
(Escape) key .
CVE-1999-1077 OS allows local attackers to bypass the password protection of idled sessions via the programmer's
switch or CMD-PWR keyboard sequence, which brings up a debugger that the attacker can use to
disable the lock.
CVE-2003-0304 Direct request of installation file allows attacker to create administrator accounts.
CVE-2002-0870 Attackers may gain additional privileges by directly requesting the web management URL.
CVE-2002-0066 Bypass authentication via direct request to named pipe.
CVE-2003-1035 User can avoid lockouts by using an API instead of the GUI to conduct brute force password guessing.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Funnel all access through a single choke point to simplify how users can access a resource. For every access, perform a check
to determine if the user has permissions to access the resource.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 721 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A10 - Failure to Restrict URL Access
MemberOf 947 SFP Secondary Cluster: Authentication Bypass
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
overlaps Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
q <= 32'h0;
data\_out <= 32'h0;
end
else
begin
q <= (addr\_auth & write\_auth) ? data\_in: q;
data\_out <= q;
end
end
endmodule
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00 || address == 32'h800F00) ? 1: 0;3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-288: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/288.html 3/3PLOVER Authentication Bypass by Alternate Path/Channel
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A10 CWE More Specific Failure to Restrict URL Access
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-127 Directory Indexing
CAPEC-665 Exploitation of Thunderbolt Protection Flaws
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names