3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-822: Untrusted Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/822.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-822: Untrusted Pointer Dereference
Weakness ID: 822
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product obtains a value from an untrusted source, converts this value to a pointer , and dereferences the resulting pointer .
 Extended Description
An attacker can supply a pointer for memory locations that the product is not expecting. If the pointer is dereferenced for a write
operation, the attack might allow modification of critical state variables, cause a crash, or execute code. If the dereferencing operation
is for a read, then the attack might allow reading of sensitive data, cause a crash, or set a variable to an unexpected value (since the
value will be read from an unexpected memory location).
There are several variants of this weakness, including but not necessarily limited to:
The untrusted value is directly invoked as a function call.
In OS kernels or drivers where there is a boundary between "userland" and privileged memory spaces, an untrusted pointer
might enter through an API or system call (see CWE-781 for one such example).
Inadvertently accepting the value from an untrusted control sphere when it did not have to be accepted as input at all. This
might occur when the code was originally developed to be run by a single user in a non-networked environment, and the
code is then ported to or otherwise exposed to a networked environment.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanFollow 781 Improper Address V alidation in IOCTL with METHOD\_NEITHER I/O Control Code
CanPrecede 125 Out-of-bounds Read
CanPrecede 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 465 Pointer Issues
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
If the untrusted pointer is used in a read operation, an attacker might be able to read sensitive
portions of memory .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If the untrusted pointer references a memory location that is not accessible to the product, or points
to a location that is "malformed" or larger than expected by a read or write operation, the application
may terminate unexpectedly .
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Memory
If the untrusted pointer is used in a function call, or points to unexpected data in a write operation,
then code execution may be possible.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-5655 message-passing framework interprets values in packets as pointers, causing a crash.
CVE-2010-2299 labeled as a "type confusion" issue, also referred to as a "stale pointer ." However , the bug ID says
"contents are simply interpreted as a pointer ... renderer ordinarily doesn't supply this pointer directly".About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-822: Untrusted Pointer Dereference (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/822.html 2/2The "handle" in the untrusted area is replaced in one function, but not another - thus also, ef fectively ,
exposure to wrong sphere ( CWE-668 ).
CVE-2009-1719 Untrusted dereference using undocumented constructor .
CVE-2009-1250 An error code is incorrectly checked and interpreted as a pointer , leading to a crash.
CVE-2009-0311 An untrusted value is obtained from a packet and directly called as a function pointer , leading to code
execution.
CVE-2010-1818 Undocumented attribute in multimedia software allows "unmarshaling" of an untrusted pointer .
CVE-2010-3189 ActiveX control for security software accepts a parameter that is assumed to be an initialized pointer .
CVE-2010-1253 Spreadsheet software treats certain record values that lead to "user-controlled pointer" (might be
untrusted of fset, not untrusted pointer).
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Many weaknesses related to pointer dereferences fall under the general term of "memory corruption" or "memory safety ." As of
September 2010, there is no commonly-used terminology that covers the lower-level variants.
Maintenance
There are close relationships between incorrect pointer dereferences and other weaknesses related to buf fer operations. There may
not be suf ficient community agreement regarding these relationships. Further study is needed to determine when these relationships
are chains, composites, perspective/layering, or other types of relationships. As of September 2010, most of the relationships are
being captured as chains.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-129 Pointer Manipulation
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-09-22
(CWE 1.10, 2010-09-27)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
