3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-204: Observable Response Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/204.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-204: Observable Response Discrepancy
Weakness ID: 204
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product provides dif ferent responses to incoming requests in a way that reveals internal state information to an unauthorized
actor outside of the intended control sphere.
 Extended Description
This issue frequently occurs during authentication, where a dif ference in failed-login messages could allow an attacker to determine if
the username is valid or not. These exposures can be inadvertent (bug) or intentional (design).
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 203 Observable Discrepancy
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code checks validity of the supplied username and password and notifies the user of a successful or failed login.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $username=param('username');
my $password=param('password');
if (IsValidUsername($username) == 1)
{
if (IsValidPassword($username, $password) == 1)
{
print "Login Successful";
}
else
{
print "Login Failed - incorrect password";
}
}
else
{
print "Login Failed - unknown username";
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-204: Observable Response Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/204.html 2/3In the above code, there are dif ferent messages for when an incorrect username is supplied, versus when the username is correct but
the password is wrong. This dif ference enables a potential attacker to understand the state of the login function, and could allow an
attacker to discover a valid username by trying dif ferent values until the incorrect password message is returned. In essence, this
makes it easier for an attacker to obtain half of the necessary authentication credentials.
While this type of information may be helpful to a user , it is also useful to a potential attacker . In the above example, the message for
both failed cases should be the same, such as:
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-2094 This, and others, use ".." attacks and monitor error responses, so there is overlap with directory
traversal.
CVE-2001-1483 Enumeration of valid usernames based on inconsistent responses
CVE-2001-1528 Account number enumeration via inconsistent responses.
CVE-2004-2150 User enumeration via discrepancies in error messages.
CVE-2005-1650 User enumeration via discrepancies in error messages.
CVE-2004-0294 Bulletin Board displays dif ferent error messages when a user exists or not, which makes it easier for
remote attackers to identify valid users and conduct a brute force password guessing attack.
CVE-2004-0243 Operating System, when direct remote login is disabled, displays a dif ferent message if the password is
correct, which allows remote attackers to guess the password via brute force methods.
CVE-2002-0514 Product allows remote attackers to determine if a port is being filtered because the response packet
TTL is dif ferent than the default TTL.
CVE-2002-0515 Product sets a dif ferent TTL when a port is being filtered than when it is not being filtered, which allows
remote attackers to identify filtered ports by comparing TTLs.
CVE-2001-1387 Product may generate dif ferent responses than specified by the administrator , possibly leading to an
information leak.
CVE-2004-0778 Version control system allows remote attackers to determine the existence of arbitrary files and
directories via the -X command for an alternate history file, which causes dif ferent error messages to
be returned.
CVE-2004-1428 FTP server generates an error message if the user name does not exist instead of prompting for a
password, which allows remote attackers to determine valid usernames.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Compartmentalize the system to have "safe" areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive
data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area.
Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design, and the compartmentalization allows for and
reinforces privilege separation functionality . Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide the
appropriate time to use privileges and the time to drop privileges.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience and no one else. The
messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic (which can confuse users) or being too detailed (which may
reveal more than intended). The messages should not reveal the methods that were used to determine the error . Attackers can
use detailed information to refine or optimize their original attack, thereby increasing their chances of success.
If errors must be captured in some detail, record them in log messages, but consider what could occur if the log messages can
be viewed by attackers. Highly sensitive information such as passwords should never be saved to log files.
Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip of f an attacker about internal state, such as whether a user account
exists or not.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 967 SFP Secondary Cluster: State Disclosure
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
}
(result) 
"Login Failed - incorrect username or password"3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-204: Observable Response Discrepancy (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/204.html 3/3This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
can overlap errors related to escalated privileges
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Response discrepancy infoleak
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-331 ICMP IP Total Length Field Probe
CAPEC-332 ICMP IP 'ID' Field Error Message Probe
CAPEC-541 Application Fingerprinting
CAPEC-580 System Footprinting
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 12: Information Leakage."
Page 191. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names