3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-804: Guessable CAPTCHA (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/804.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-804: Guessable CAPTCHA
Weakness ID: 804
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a CAPTCHA challenge, but the challenge can be guessed or automatically recognized by a non-human actor .
 Extended Description
An automated attacker could bypass the intended protection of the CAPTCHA challenge and perform actions at a higher frequency
than humanly possible, such as launching spam attacks.
There can be several dif ferent causes of a guessable CAPTCHA:
An audio or visual image that does not have suf ficient distortion from the unobfuscated source image.
A question is generated with a format that can be automatically recognized, such as a math question.
A question for which the number of possible answers is limited, such as birth years or favorite sports teams.
A general-knowledge or trivia question for which the answer can be accessed using a data base, such as country capitals or
popular entertainers.
Other data associated with the CAPTCHA may provide hints about its contents, such as an image whose filename contains
the word that is used in the CAPTCHA.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
ChildOf 863 Incorrect Authorization
CanFollow 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
When authorization, authentication, or another protection mechanism relies on CAPTCHA entities to
ensure that only human actors can access certain functionality , then an automated attacker such as
a bot may access the restricted functionality by guessing the CAPTCHA.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-4036 Chain: appointment booking app uses a weak hash ( CWE-328 ) for generating a CAPTCHA, making it
guessable ( CWE-804 )About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-804: Guessable CAPTCHA (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/804.html 2/2
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
WASC 21 Insuf ficient Anti-Automation
 References
[REF-731] W eb Application Security Consortium. "Insuf ficient Anti-automation". < http://projects.webappsec.org/Insuf ficient+Anti-
automation >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-01-15
(CWE 1.8, 2010-02-16)CWE Content Team MITRE
New entry to handle anti-automation as identified in WASC.
 Modifications
