3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-330: Use of Insuﬃciently Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/330.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random V alues
Weakness ID: 330
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses insuf ficiently random numbers or values in a security context that depends on unpredictable numbers.
 Extended Description
When product generates predictable values in a context requiring unpredictability , it may be possible for an attacker to guess the next
value that will be generated, and use this guess to impersonate another user or access sensitive information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
ParentOf 331 Insuf ficient Entropy
ParentOf 334 Small Space of Random V alues
ParentOf 335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
ParentOf 338 Use of Cryptographically W eak Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
ParentOf 340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
ParentOf 344 Use of Invariant V alue in Dynamically Changing Context
ParentOf 1204 Generation of W eak Initialization V ector (IV)
ParentOf 1241 Use of Predictable Algorithm in Random Number Generator
CanPrecede 804 Guessable CAPTCHA
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Background Details
Computers are deterministic machines, and as such are unable to produce true randomness. Pseudo-Random Number Generators
(PRNGs) approximate randomness algorithmically , starting with a seed from which subsequent values are calculated. There are two
types of PRNGs: statistical and cryptographic. Statistical PRNGs provide useful statistical properties, but their output is highly
predictable and forms an easy to reproduce numeric stream that is unsuitable for use in cases where security depends on generated
values being unpredictable. Cryptographic PRNGs address this problem by generating output that is more dif ficult to predict. For a
value to be cryptographically secure, it must be impossible or highly improbable for an attacker to distinguish between it and a truly
random value.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
When a protection mechanism relies on random values to restrict access to a sensitive resource,
such as a session ID or a seed for generating a cryptographic key , then the resource being
protected could be accessed by guessing the ID or key .
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; OtherAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-330: Use of Insuﬃciently Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/330.html 2/5If product relies on unique, unguessable IDs to identify a resource, an attacker might be able to
guess an ID for a resource that is owned by another user . The attacker could then read the
resource, or pre-create a resource with the same ID to prevent the legitimate program from properly
sending the resource to the intended user . For example, a product might maintain session
information in a file whose name is based on a username. An attacker could pre-create this file for a
victim user , then set the permissions so that the application cannot generate the session for the
victim, preventing the victim from using the application.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
When an authorization or authentication mechanism relies on random values to restrict access to
restricted functionality , such as a session ID or a seed for generating a cryptographic key , then an
attacker may access the restricted functionality by guessing the ID or key .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code attempts to generate a unique random identifier for a user's session.
Because the seed for the PRNG is always the user's ID, the session ID will always be the same. An attacker could thus predict any
user's session ID and potentially hijack the session.
This example also exhibits a Small Seed Space ( CWE-339 ).
Example 2
The following code uses a statistical PRNG to create a URL for a receipt that remains active for some period of time after a purchase.
This code uses the Random.nextInt() function to generate "unique" identifiers for the receipt pages it generates. Because
Random.nextInt() is a statistical PRNG, it is easy for an attacker to guess the strings it generates. Although the underlying design of
the receipt system is also faulty , it would be more secure if it used a random number generator that did not produce predictable
receipt identifiers, such as a cryptographic PRNG.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-3692 PHP framework uses mt\_rand() function (Marsenne Twister) when generating tokens
CVE-2020-7010 Cloud application on Kubernetes generates passwords using a weak random number generator based
on deployment time.
CVE-2009-3278 Crypto product uses rand() library function to generate a recovery key , making it easier to conduct
brute force attacks.
CVE-2009-3238 Random number generator can repeatedly generate the same value.
CVE-2009-2367 Web application generates predictable session IDs, allowing session hijacking.
CVE-2009-2158 Password recovery utility generates a relatively small number of random passwords, simplifying brute
force attacks.
CVE-2009-0255 Cryptographic key created with a seed based on the system time.
CVE-2008-5162 Kernel function does not have a good entropy source just after boot.
CVE-2008-4905 Blogging software uses a hard-coded salt when calculating a password hash.
CVE-2008-4929 Bulletin board application uses insuf ficiently random names for uploaded files, allowing other users to
access private files.
CVE-2008-3612 Handheld device uses predictable TCP sequence numbers, allowing spoofing or hijacking of TCP
connections.
CVE-2008-2433 Web management console generates session IDs based on the login time, making it easier to conduct
session hijacking.
CVE-2008-0166 SSL library uses a weak random number generator that only generates 65,536 unique keys.
CVE-2008-2108 Chain: insuf ficient precision causes extra zero bits to be assigned, reducing entropy for an API function
that generates random numbers.
CVE-2008-2108 Chain: insuf ficient precision ( CWE-1339 ) in random-number generator causes some zero bits to be
reliably generated, reducing the amount of entropy ( CWE-331 )(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function generateSessionID($userID){
srand($userID);
return rand();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String GenerateReceiptURL(String baseUrl) {
Random ranGen = new Random();
ranGen.setSeed((new Date()).getTime());
return(baseUrl + ranGen.nextInt(400000000) + ".html");
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-330: Use of Insuﬃciently Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/330.html 3/5CVE-2008-2020 CAPTCHA implementation does not produce enough dif ferent images, allowing bypass using a
database of all possible checksums.
CVE-2008-0087 DNS client uses predictable DNS transaction IDs, allowing DNS spoofing.
CVE-2008-0141 Application generates passwords that are based on the time of day .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use a well-vetted algorithm that is currently considered to be strong by experts in the field, and select well-tested
implementations with adequate length seeds.
In general, if a pseudo-random number generator is not advertised as being cryptographically secure, then it is probably a
statistical PRNG and should not be used in security-sensitive contexts.
Pseudo-random number generators can produce predictable numbers if the generator is known and the seed can be guessed. A
256-bit seed is a good starting point for producing a "random enough" number .
Phase: Implementation
Consider a PRNG that re-seeds itself as needed from high quality pseudo-random output sources, such as hardware devices.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex
C ("Approved Random Number Generators").
Phase: T esting
Use tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive
tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session. These may be more ef fective than strictly automated
techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are related to design and business rules.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Black Box
Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This
technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify
that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running
process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon,
RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and protocol analyzers that monitor network
traffic.
Attach the monitor to the process and look for library functions that indicate when randomness is being used. Run the process
multiple times to see if the seed changes. Look for accesses of devices or equivalent resources that are commonly used for
strong (or weak) randomness, such as /dev/urandom on Linux. Look for library or system calls that access predictable
information such as process IDs and system time.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-330: Use of Insuﬃciently Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/330.html 4/5Man-in-the-middle attack tool
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Functional Areas
Cryptography
Authentication
Session Management
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 747 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 14 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 867 2011 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 883 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 49 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1169 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 14. Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 1170 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 48. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar). It might have lower-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Notes
Relationship
This can be primary to many other weaknesses such as cryptographic errors, authentication errors, symlink following, information
leaks, and others.
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-330: Use of Insuﬃciently Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/330.html 5/5Maintenance
As of CWE 4.3, CWE-330 and its descendants are being investigated by the CWE crypto team to identify gaps related to
randomness and unpredictability , as well as the relationships between randomness and cryptographic primitives. This "subtree
analysis" might result in the addition or deprecation of existing entries; the reorganization of relationships in some views, e.g. the
research view ( CWE-1000 ); more consistent use of terminology; and/or significant modifications to related entries.
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Randomness and Predictability
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Insecure Randomness
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A2 CWE More
SpecificBroken Access Control
CER T C Secure Coding CON33-C Imprecise Avoid race conditions when using library functions
CER T C Secure Coding MSC30-C CWE More
AbstractDo not use the rand() function for generating pseudorandom
numbers
CER T C Secure Coding MSC32-C CWE More
AbstractProperly seed pseudorandom number generators
WASC 11 Brute Force
WASC 18 Credential/Session Prediction
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC02-J Generate strong random numbers
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-112 Brute Force
CAPEC-485 Signature Spoofing by Key Recreation
CAPEC-59 Session Credential Falsification through Prediction
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-207] John V iega and Gary McGraw . "Building Secure Software: How to Avoid Security Problems the Right W ay". 1st Edition.
Addison-W esley . 2002.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 8, "Using Poor Random Numbers" Page 259. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names