3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-663: Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/663.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-663: Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context
Weakness ID: 663
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product calls a non-reentrant function in a concurrent context in which a competing code sequence (e.g. thread or signal handler)
may have an opportunity to call the same function or otherwise influence its state.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 662 Improper Synchronization
ParentOf 479 Signal Handler Use of a Non-reentrant Function
ParentOf 558 Use of getlogin() in Multithreaded Application
PeerOf 1265 Unintended Reentrant Invocation of Non-reentrant Code V ia Nested Calls
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; Modify Application Data; Read Application Data; Alter Execution Logic
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a signal handler uses syslog() to log a message:
Example 2
The following code relies on getlogin() to determine whether or not a user is trusted. It is easily subverted.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) 
char \*message;
void sh(int dummy) {
syslog(LOG\_NOTICE,"%s\n",message);
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
int main(int argc,char\* argv[]) {
...
signal(SIGHUP,sh);
signal(SIGTERM,sh);
sleep(10);
exit(0);
}
If the execution of the first call to the signal handler is suspended after invoking syslog(), and the signal handler is called a second time,
the memory allocated by syslog() enters an undefined, and possibly, exploitable state.
(bad code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-663: Use of a Non-reentrant Function in a Concurrent Context (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/663.html 2/2
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1349 unsafe calls to library functions from signal handler
CVE-2004-2259 SIGCHLD signal to FTP server can cause crash under heavy load while executing non-reentrant
functions like malloc/free.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Use reentrant functions if available.
Phase: Implementation
Add synchronization to your non-reentrant function.
Phase: Implementation
In Java, use the ReentrantLock Class.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-547] SUN. "Java Concurrency API". Class ReentrantLock.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-548] Dipak Jha, Software Engineer , IBM. "Use reentrant functions for safer signal handling". < https://archive.ph/rl1XR >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Community
Submitted by members of the CWE community to extend early CWE versions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
pwd = getpwnam(getlogin());
if (isTrustedGroup(pwd->pw\_gid)) {
allow();
} else {
deny();
}