3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-515: Covert Storage Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/515.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-515: Covert Storage Channel
Weakness ID: 515
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A covert storage channel transfers information through the setting of bits by one program and the reading of those bits by another .
What distinguishes this case from that of ordinary operation is that the bits are used to convey encoded information.
 Extended Description
Covert storage channels occur when out-of-band data is stored in messages for the purpose of memory reuse. Covert channels are
frequently classified as either storage or timing channels. Examples would include using a file intended to hold only audit information
to convey user passwords--using the name of a file or perhaps status bits associated with it that can be read by all users to signal the
contents of the file. Steganography , concealing information in such a manner that no one but the intended recipient knows of the
existence of the message, is a good example of a covert storage channel.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 514 Covert Channel
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 417 Communication Channel Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Covert storage channels may provide attackers with important information about the system in
question.
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
If these messages or packets are sent with unnecessary data contained within, it may tip of f
malicious listeners as to the process that created the message. With this information, attackers may
learn any number of things, including the hardware platform, operating system, or algorithms used by
the sender . This information can be of significant value to the user in launching further attacks.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
An excellent example of covert storage channels in a well known application is the ICMP error message echoing functionality . Due to
ambiguities in the ICMP RFC, many IP implementations use the memory within the packet for storage or calculation. For this reason,
certain fields of certain packets -- such as ICMP error packets which echo back parts of received messages -- may contain flaws or
extra information which betrays information about the identity of the target operating system. This information is then used to build up
evidence to decide the environment of the target. This is the first crucial step in determining if a given system is vulnerable to a
particular flaw and what changes must be made to malicious code to mount a successful attack.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that all reserved fields are set to zero before messages are sent and that no unnecessary information is included.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-515: Covert Storage Channel (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/515.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 968 SFP Secondary Cluster: Covert Channel
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.9, members of the CWE Hardware SIG are working to improve CWE's coverage of transient execution weaknesses,
which include issues related to Spectre, Meltdown, and other attacks that create or exploit covert channels. As a result of that work,
this entry might change in CWE 4.10.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
Landwehr Storage
CLASP Covert storage channel
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Landwehr
 Modifications
