3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-916: Use of Password Hash With Insuﬃcient Computational Eﬀort (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/916.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-916: Use of Password Hash W ith Insufficient Computational Effort
Weakness ID: 916
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product generates a hash for a password, but it uses a scheme that does not provide a suf ficient level of computational ef fort that
would make password cracking attacks infeasible or expensive.
 Extended Description
Many password storage mechanisms compute a hash and store the hash, instead of storing the original password in plaintext. In this
design, authentication involves accepting an incoming password, computing its hash, and comparing it to the stored hash.
Many hash algorithms are designed to execute quickly with minimal overhead, even cryptographic hashes. However , this ef ficiency is
a problem for password storage, because it can reduce an attacker's workload for brute-force password cracking. If an attacker can
obtain the hashes through some other method (such as SQL injection on a database that stores hashes), then the attacker can store
the hashes of fline and use various techniques to crack the passwords by computing hashes ef ficiently . Without a built-in workload,
modern attacks can compute large numbers of hashes, or even exhaust the entire space of all possible passwords, within a very short
amount of time, using massively-parallel computing (such as cloud computing) and GPU, ASIC, or FPGA hardware. In such a
scenario, an ef ficient hash algorithm helps the attacker .
There are several properties of a hash scheme that are relevant to its strength against an of fline, massively-parallel attack:
The amount of CPU time required to compute the hash ("stretching")
The amount of memory required to compute the hash ("memory-hard" operations)
Including a random value, along with the password, as input to the hash computation ("salting")
Given a hash, there is no known way of determining an input (e.g., a password) that produces this hash value, other than by
guessing possible inputs ("one-way" hashing)
Relative to the number of all possible hashes that can be generated by the scheme, there is a low likelihood of producing the
same hash for multiple dif ferent inputs ("collision resistance")
Note that the security requirements for the product may vary depending on the environment and the value of the passwords. Dif ferent
schemes might not provide all of these properties, yet may still provide suf ficient security for the environment. Conversely , a solution
might be very strong in preserving one property , which still being very weak for an attack against another property , or it might not be
able to significantly reduce the ef ficiency of a massively-parallel attack.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 328 Use of W eak Hash
ParentOf 759 Use of a One-W ay Hash without a Salt
ParentOf 760 Use of a One-W ay Hash with a Predictable Salt
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-916: Use of Password Hash With Insuﬃcient Computational Eﬀort (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/916.html 2/4
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If an attacker can gain access to the hashes, then the lack of suf ficient computational ef fort will
make it easier to conduct brute force attacks using techniques such as rainbow tables, or
specialized hardware such as GPUs, which can be much faster than general-purpose CPUs for
computing hashes.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example, a new user provides a new username and password to create an account. The program hashes the new user's
password then stores it in a database.
While it is good to avoid storing a cleartext password, the program does not provide a salt to the hashing function, thus increasing the
chances of an attacker being able to reverse the hash and discover the original password if the database is compromised.
Fixing this is as simple as providing a salt to the hashing function on initialization:
Note that regardless of the usage of a salt, the md5 hash is no longer considered secure, so this example still exhibits CWE-327 .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-1526 Router does not use a salt with a hash, making it easier to crack passwords.
CVE-2006-1058 Router does not use a salt with a hash, making it easier to crack passwords.
CVE-2008-4905 Blogging software uses a hard-coded salt when calculating a password hash.
CVE-2002-1657 Database server uses the username for a salt when encrypting passwords, simplifying brute force
attacks.
CVE-2001-0967 Server uses a constant salt when encrypting passwords, simplifying brute force attacks.
CVE-2005-0408 chain: product generates predictable MD5 hashes using a constant value combined with username,
allowing authentication bypass.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use an adaptive hash function that can be configured to change the amount of computational ef fort needed to compute the
hash, such as the number of iterations ("stretching") or the amount of memory required. Some hash functions perform salting
automatically . These functions can significantly increase the overhead for a brute force attack compared to intentionally-fast
functions such as MD5. For example, rainbow table attacks can become infeasible due to the high computing overhead. Finally ,
since computing power gets faster and cheaper over time, the technique can be reconfigured to increase the workload without
forcing an entire replacement of the algorithm in use.
Some hash functions that have one or more of these desired properties include bcrypt [ REF-291 ], scrypt [ REF-292 ], and
PBKDF2 [ REF-293 ]. While there is active debate about which of these is the most ef fective, they are all stronger than using salts
with hash functions with very little computing overhead.
Note that using these functions can have an impact on performance, so they require special consideration to avoid denial-of-
service attacks. However , their configurability provides finer control over how much CPU and memory is used, so it could be
adjusted to suit the environment's needs.
Effectiveness: High
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
When using industry-approved techniques, use them correctly . Don't cut corners by skipping resource-intensive steps ( CWE-
325). These steps are often essential for preventing common attacks.
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
def storePassword(userName,Password):
hasher = hashlib.new('md5')
hasher.update(Password)
hashedPassword = hasher.digest()
# UpdateUserLogin returns True on success, False otherwise
return updateUserLogin(userName,hashedPassword)
(good code) Example Language: Python 
def storePassword(userName,Password):
hasher = hashlib.new('md5',b'SaltGoesHere')
hasher.update(Password)
hashedPassword = hasher.digest()
# UpdateUserLogin returns True on success, False otherwise
return updateUserLogin(userName,hashedPassword)3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-916: Use of Password Hash With Insuﬃcient Computational Eﬀort (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/916.html 3/4
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-916: Use of Password Hash With Insuﬃcient Computational Eﬀort (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/916.html 4/4Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-55 Rainbow Table Password Cracking
 References
[REF-291] Johnny Shelley . "bcrypt". < http://bcrypt.sourceforge.net/ >.
[REF-292] Colin Percival. "T arsnap - The scrypt key derivation function and encryption utility".
.
[REF-293] B. Kaliski. "RFC2898 - PKCS #5: Password-Based Cryptography Specification V ersion 2.0". 5.2 PBKDF2. 2000.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-294] Coda Hale. "How To Safely Store A Password". 2010-01-31. < https://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-295] Brian Krebs. "How Companies Can Beef Up Password Security (interview with Thomas H. Ptacek)". 2012-06-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-296] Solar Designer . "Password security: past, present, future". 2012.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-297] Troy Hunt. "Our password hashing has no clothes". 2012-06-26. < https://www .troyhunt.com/our-password-hashing-
has-no-clothes/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-298] Joshbw . "Should we really use bcrypt/scrypt?". 2012-06-08.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-636] Jef f Atwood. "Speed Hashing". 2012-04-06. < https://blog.codinghorror .com/speed-hashing/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-631] OW ASP. "Password Storage Cheat Sheet".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-632] Thomas Ptacek. "Enough With The Rainbow Tables: What You Need To Know About Secure Password Schemes".
2007-09-10. < http://hashphp.org/hashing.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-908] Solar Designer . "Password hashing at scale". 2012-10-01. < https://www .openwall.com/presentations/Y aC2012-
Password-Hashing-At-Scale/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-909] Solar Designer . "New developments in password hashing: ROM-port-hard functions". 2012-11.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-633] Robert Graham. "The Importance of Being Canonical". 2009-02-02. < https://blog.erratasec.com/2009/02/importance-
of-being-canonical.html#.ZCbyY7LMJPY >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2013-01-28
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
Created with input from members of the secure password hashing community.
 Modifications