3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-415: Double Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/415.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-415: Double Free
Weakness ID: 415
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product calls free() twice on the same memory address, potentially leading to modification of unexpected memory locations.
 Extended Description
When a program calls free() twice with the same argument, the program's memory management data structures become corrupted.
This corruption can cause the program to crash or , in some circumstances, cause two later calls to malloc() to return the same pointer .
If malloc() returns the same value twice and the program later gives the attacker control over the data that is written into this doubly-
allocated memory , the program becomes vulnerable to a buf fer overflow attack.
 Alternate T erms
Double-free
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 666 Operation on Resource in W rong Phase of Lifetime
ChildOf 1341 Multiple Releases of Same Resource or Handle
ChildOf 825 Expired Pointer Dereference
PeerOf 123 Write-what-where Condition
PeerOf 416 Use After Free
CanFollow 364 Signal Handler Race Condition
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Doubly freeing memory may result in a write-what-where condition, allowing an attacker to execute
arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code shows a simple example of a double free vulnerability .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* ptr = (char\*)malloc (SIZE);
...
if(bt){3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-415: Double Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/415.html 2/3Double free vulnerabilities have two common (and sometimes overlapping) causes:
Error conditions and other exceptional circumstances
Confusion over which part of the program is responsible for freeing the memory
Although some double free vulnerabilities are not much more complicated than this example, most are spread out across hundreds of
lines of code or even dif ferent files. Programmers seem particularly susceptible to freeing global variables more than once.
Example 2
While contrived, this code should be exploitable on Linux distributions that do not ship with heap-chunk check summing turned on.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-5051 Chain: Signal handler contains too much functionality ( CWE-828 ), introducing a race condition ( CWE-
362) that leads to a double free ( CWE-415 ).
CVE-2004-0642 Double free resultant from certain error conditions.
CVE-2004-0772 Double free resultant from certain error conditions.
CVE-2005-1689 Double free resultant from certain error conditions.
CVE-2003-0545 Double free from invalid ASN.1 encoding.
CVE-2003-1048 Double free from malformed GIF .
CVE-2005-0891 Double free from malformed GIF .
CVE-2002-0059 Double free from malformed compressed data.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Choose a language that provides automatic memory management.
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that each allocation is freed only once. After freeing a chunk, set the pointer to NULL to ensure the pointer cannot be
freed again. In complicated error conditions, be sure that clean-up routines respect the state of allocation properly . If the
language is object oriented, ensure that object destructors delete each chunk of memory only once.
Phase: Implementation
Use a static analysis tool to find double free instances.
 Detection Methods
Fuzzing
Fuzz testing (fuzzing) is a powerful technique for generating large numbers of diverse inputs - either randomly or algorithmically
- and dynamically invoking the code with those inputs. Even with random inputs, it is often capable of generating unexpected
results such as crashes, memory corruption, or resource consumption. Fuzzing ef fectively produces repeatable test cases that
clearly indicate bugs, which helps developers to diagnose the issues.
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building aif (abrt) {
free(ptr);
}
...
free(ptr);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
#define BUFSIZE1 512
#define BUFSIZE2 ((BUFSIZE1/2) - 8)
int main(int argc, char \*\*argv) {
char \*buf1R1;
char \*buf2R1;
char \*buf1R2;
buf1R1 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZE2);
buf2R1 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZE2);
free(buf1R1);
free(buf2R1);
buf1R2 = (char \*) malloc(BUFSIZE1);
strncpy(buf1R2, argv[1], BUFSIZE1-1);
free(buf2R1);
free(buf1R2);
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-415: Double Free (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/415.html 3/3model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 969 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Memory Release
MemberOf 1162 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 08. Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 1237 SFP Primary Cluster: Faulty Resource Release
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is usually resultant from another weakness, such as an unhandled error or race condition between threads. It could also be
primary to weaknesses such as buf fer overflows.
Theoretical
It could be argued that Double Free would be most appropriately located as a child of "Use after Free", but "Use" and "Release" are
considered to be distinct operations within vulnerability theory , therefore this is more accurately "Release of a Resource after
Expiration or Release", which doesn't exist yet.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER DFREE - Double-Free V ulnerability
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Double Free
CLASP Doubly freeing memory
CER T C Secure Coding MEM00-C Allocate and free memory in the same module, at the same
level of abstraction
CER T C Secure Coding MEM01-C Store a new value in pointers immediately after free()
CER T C Secure Coding MEM30-C CWE More
SpecificDo not access freed memory
CER T C Secure Coding MEM31-C Free dynamically allocated memory exactly once
Software Fault Patterns SFP12 Faulty Memory Release
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 8: C++ Catastrophes."
Page 143. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "Double Frees",
Page 379. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
