3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1260: Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1260.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1260: Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges
Weakness ID: 1260
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allows address regions to overlap, which can result in the bypassing of intended memory protection.
 Extended Description
Isolated memory regions and access control (read/write) policies are used by hardware to protect privileged software. Software
components are often allowed to change or remap memory region definitions in order to enable flexible and dynamically changeable
memory management by system software.
If a software component running at lower privilege can program a memory address region to overlap with other memory regions used
by software running at higher privilege, privilege escalation may be available to attackers. The memory protection unit (MPU) logic
can incorrectly handle such an address overlap and allow the lower-privilege software to read or write into the protected memory
region, resulting in privilege escalation attack. An address overlap weakness can also be used to launch a denial of service attack on
the higher-privilege software memory regions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignSuch issues could be introduced during hardware architecture and design or implementation and
identified later during the Testing phase.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: InstabilityHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
For example, consider a design with a 16-bit address that has two software privilege levels: Privileged\_SW and Non\_privileged\_SW .
To isolate the system memory regions accessible by these two privilege levels, the design supports three memory regions: Region\_0,About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1260: Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1260.html 2/4Region\_1, and Region\_2.
Each region is defined by two 32 bit registers: its range and its access policy .
Address\_range[15:0]: specifies the Base address of the region
Address\_range[31:16]: specifies the size of the region
Access\_policy[31:0]: specifies what types of software can access a region and which actions are allowed
Certain bits of the access policy are defined symbolically as follows:
Access\_policy .read\_np: if set to one, allows reads from Non\_privileged\_SW
Access\_policy .write\_np: if set to one, allows writes from Non\_privileged\_SW
Access\_policy .execute\_np: if set to one, allows code execution by Non\_privileged\_SW
Access\_policy .read\_p: if set to one, allows reads from Privileged\_SW
Access\_policy .write\_p: if set to one, allows writes from Privileged\_SW
Access\_policy .execute\_p: if set to one, allows code execution by Privileged\_SW
For any requests from software, an address-protection filter checks the address range and access policies for each of the three
regions, and only allows software access if all three filters allow access.
Consider the following goals for access control as intended by the designer:
Region\_0 & Region\_1: registers are programmable by Privileged\_SW
Region\_2: registers are programmable by Non\_privileged\_SW
The intention is that Non\_privileged\_SW cannot modify memory region and policies defined by Privileged\_SW in Region\_0 and
Region\_1. Thus, it cannot read or write the memory regions that Privileged\_SW is using.
This design could be improved in several ways.
Example 2
The example code below is taken from the IOMMU controller module of the HACK@DAC'19 buggy CV A6 SoC [ REF-1338 ]. The static
memory map is composed of a set of Memory-Mapped Input/Output (MMIO) regions covering dif ferent IP agents within the SoC. Each
region is defined by two 64-bit variables representing the base address and size of the memory region (XXXBase and XXXLength).
In this example, we have 12 IP agents, and only 4 of them are called out for illustration purposes in the code snippets. Access to the
AES IP MMIO region is considered privileged as it provides access to AES secret key , internal states, or decrypted data.
The vulnerable code allows the overlap between the protected MMIO region of the AES peripheral and the unprotected UAR T MMIO
region. As a result, unprivileged users can access the protected region of the AES IP . In the given vulnerable example UAR T MMIO
region starts at address 64'h1000\_0000 and ends at address 64'h1011\_1000 (UAR TBase is 64'h1000\_0000, and the size of the
region is provided by the UAR TLength of 64'h0011\_1000).
On the other hand, the AES MMIO region starts at address 64'h1010\_0000 and ends at address 64'h1010\_1000, which implies an
overlap between the two peripherals' memory regions. Thus, any user with access to the UAR T can read or write the AES MMIO
region, e.g., the AES secret key .
To mitigate this issue, remove the overlapping address regions by decreasing the size of the UAR T memory region or adjusting
memory bases for all the remaining peripherals. [ REF-1339 ](bad code) 
Non\_privileged\_SW can program the Address\_range register for Region\_2 so that its address overlaps with the ranges defined by
Region\_0 or Region\_1. Using this capability, it is possible for Non\_privileged\_SW to block any memory region from being accessed by
Privileged\_SW, i.e., Region\_0 and Region\_1.
(good code) 
Ensure that software accesses to memory regions are only permitted if all three filters permit access. Additionally, the scheme could define
a memory region priority to ensure that Region\_2 (the memory region defined by Non\_privileged\_SW) cannot overlap Region\_0 or
Region\_1 (which are used by Privileged\_SW).
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
...
localparam logic[63:0] PLICLength = 64'h03FF\_FFFF;
localparam logic[63:0] UARTLength = 64'h0011\_1000;
localparam logic[63:0] AESLength = 64'h0000\_1000;
localparam logic[63:0] SPILength = 64'h0080\_0000;
...
typedef enum logic [63:0] {
...
PLICBase = 64'h0C00\_0000,
UARTBase = 64'h1000\_0000,
AESBase = 64'h1010\_0000,
SPIBase = 64'h2000\_0000,
...
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1260: Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1260.html 3/4
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2008-7096 virtualization product allows compromise of hardware product by accessing certain remapping
registers.
processor design flaw allows ring 0 code to access more privileged rings by causing a register window
to overlap a range of protected system RAM [ REF-1100 ]
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that memory regions are isolated as intended and that access control (read/write) policies are used by hardware to
protect privileged software.
Phase: Implementation
For all of the programmable memory protection regions, the memory protection unit (MPU) design can define a priority scheme.
For example: if three memory regions can be programmed (Region\_0, Region\_1, and Region\_2), the design can enforce a
priority scheme, such that, if a system address is within multiple regions, then the region with the lowest ID takes priority and the
access-control policy of that region will be applied. In some MPU designs, the priority scheme can also be programmed by
trusted software.
Hardware logic or trusted firmware can also check for region definitions and block programming of memory regions with
overlapping addresses.
The memory-access-control-check filter can also be designed to apply a policy filter to all of the overlapping ranges, i.e., if an
address is within Region\_0 and Region\_1, then access to this address is only granted if both Region\_0 and Region\_1 policies
allow the access.
Effectiveness: High
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Create a high privilege memory block of any arbitrary size. Attempt to create a lower privilege memory block with an overlap of
the high privilege memory block. If the creation attempt works, fix the hardware. Repeat the test.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1343 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Most Important Hardware W eaknesses List
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
...
localparam logic[63:0] PLICLength = 64'h03FF\_FFFF;
localparam logic[63:0] UARTLength = 64'h0000\_1000;
localparam logic[63:0] AESLength = 64'h0000\_1000;
localparam logic[63:0] SPILength = 64'h0080\_0000;
...
typedef enum logic [63:0] {
...
PLICBase = 64'h0C00\_0000,
UARTBase = 64'h1000\_0000,
AESBase = 64'h1010\_0000,
SPIBase = 64'h2000\_0000,
...3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1260: Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1260.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.6, CWE-1260 and CWE-1316 are siblings under view 1000, but CWE-1260 might be a parent of CWE-1316 . More
analysis is warranted.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-456 Infected Memory
CAPEC-679 Exploitation of Improperly Configured or Implemented Memory Protections
 References
[REF-1100] Christopher Domas. "The Memory Sinkhole". 2015-07-20. < https://github.com/xoreaxeaxeax/sinkhole/blob/master/us-
15-Domas-TheMemorySinkhole-wp.pdf >.
[REF-1338] "Hackatdac19 ariane\_soc\_pkg.sv". 2019. < https://github.com/HACK-
EVENT/hackatdac19/blob/619e9fb0ef32ee1e01ad76b8732a156572c65700/tb/ariane\_soc\_pkg.sv#L44:L62 >. URL validated:
2023-06-21 .
[REF-1339] Florian Zaruba, Michael Schaf fner and Andreas Traber . "csr\_regfile.sv". 2019.
. URL
validated: 2023-06-21 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.1, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-20 Narasimha Kumar V Mangipudi Lattice Semiconductor
suggested content improvements
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
suggested observed examples
2023-06-21 Shaza Zeitouni, Mohamadreza Rostami, Pouya Mahmoody , Ahmad-
Reza SadeghiTechnical University of
Darmstadt
suggested demonstrative example
2023-06-21 Rahul Kande, Chen Chen, Jeyavijayan Rajendran Texas A&M University
suggested demonstrative example
 Modifications