3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-532: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/532.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-532: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File
Weakness ID: 532
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Information written to log files can be of a sensitive nature and give valuable guidance to an attacker or expose sensitive user
information.
 Extended Description
While logging all information may be helpful during development stages, it is important that logging levels be set appropriately before
a product ships so that sensitive user data and system information are not accidentally exposed to potential attackers.
Different log files may be produced and stored for:
Server log files (e.g. server .log). This can give information on whatever application left the file. Usually this can give full path
names and system information, and sometimes usernames and passwords.
log files that are used for debugging
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 538 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
Operation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Logging sensitive user data often provides attackers with an additional, less-protected path to
acquiring the information.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following code snippet, a user's full name and credit card number are written to a log file.
Example 2
This code stores location information about the current user:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
logger.info("Username: " + usernme + ", CCN: " + ccn);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
locationClient = new LocationClient(this, this, this);
locationClient.connect();
currentUser.setLocation(locationClient.getLastLocation());
...3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-532: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/532.html 2/3When the application encounters an exception it will write the user object to the log. Because the user object contains location
information, the user's location is also written to the log.
Example 3
In the example below , the method getUserBankAccount retrieves a bank account object from a database using the supplied
username and account number to query the database. If an SQLException is raised when querying the database, an error message is
created and output to a log file.
The error message that is created includes information about the database query that may contain sensitive information about the
database or query logic. In this case, the error message will expose the table name and column names used in the database. This
data could be used to simplify other attacks, such as SQL injection ( CWE-89 ) to directly access the database.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2017-9615 verbose logging stores admin credentials in a world-readable log file
CVE-2018-1999036 SSH password for private key stored in build log
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Consider seriously the sensitivity of the information written into log files. Do not write secrets into the log files.
Phase: Distribution
Remove debug log files before deploying the application into production.
Phase: Operation
Protect log files against unauthorized read/write.
Phase: Implementation
Adjust configurations appropriately when software is transitioned from a debug state to production.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
catch (Exception e) {
AlertDialog.Builder builder = new AlertDialog.Builder(this);
builder.setMessage("Sorry, this application has experienced an error.");
AlertDialog alert = builder.create();
alert.show();
Log.e("ExampleActivity", "Caught exception: " + e + " While on User:" + User.toString());
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public BankAccount getUserBankAccount(String username, String accountNumber) {
BankAccount userAccount = null;
String query = null;
try {
if (isAuthorizedUser(username)) {
query = "SELECT \* FROM accounts WHERE owner = "
+ username + " AND accountID = " + accountNumber;
DatabaseManager dbManager = new DatabaseManager();
Connection conn = dbManager.getConnection();
Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
ResultSet queryResult = stmt.executeQuery(query);
userAccount = (BankAccount)queryResult.getObject(accountNumber);
}
} catch (SQLException ex) {
String logMessage = "Unable to retrieve account information from database,\nquery: " + query;
Logger.getLogger(BankManager.class.getName()).log(Level.SEVERE, logMessage, ex);
}
return userAccount;
}3/7/24, 3:03 PM CWE - CWE-532: Insertion of Sensitive Information into Log File (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/532.html 3/3MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1355 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A09:2021 - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO13-J Do not log sensitive information outside a trust boundary
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-215 Fuzzing for application mapping
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2009-07-15 Fortify Software
Portions of Mitigations, Consequences and Description derived from content submitted by Fortify Software.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
