3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/312.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 312
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product stores sensitive information in cleartext within a resource that might be accessible to another control sphere.
 Extended Description
Because the information is stored in cleartext (i.e., unencrypted), attackers could potentially read it. Even if the information is encoded
in a way that is not human-readable, certain techniques could determine which encoding is being used, then decode the information.
When organizations adopt cloud services, it can be easier for attackers to access the data from anywhere on the Internet.
In some systems/environments such as cloud, the use of "double encryption" (at both the software and hardware layer) might be
required, and the developer might be solely responsible for both layers, instead of shared responsibility with the administrator of the
broader system/environment.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 922 Insecure Storage of Sensitive Information
ChildOf 311 Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data
ParentOf 313 Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk
ParentOf 314 Cleartext Storage in the Registry
ParentOf 315 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in a Cookie
ParentOf 316 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory
ParentOf 317 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in GUI
ParentOf 318 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Executable
ParentOf 526 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in an Environment V ariable
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Cloud Computing (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
An attacker with access to the system could read sensitive information stored in cleartext.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/312.html 2/5The following code excerpt stores a plaintext user account ID in a browser cookie.
Because the account ID is in plaintext, the user's account information is exposed if their computer is compromised by an attacker .
Example 2
This code writes a user's login information to a cookie so the user does not have to login again later .
The code stores the user's username and password in plaintext in a cookie on the user's machine. This exposes the user's login
information if their computer is compromised by an attacker . Even if the user's machine is not compromised, this weakness combined
with cross-site scripting ( CWE-79 ) could allow an attacker to remotely copy the cookie.
Also note this example code also exhibits Plaintext Storage in a Cookie ( CWE-315 ).
Example 3
The following code attempts to establish a connection, read in a password, then store it to a buf fer.
While successful, the program does not encrypt the data before writing it to a buf fer, possibly exposing it to unauthorized actors.
Example 4
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
Example 5
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
response.addCookie( new Cookie("userAccountID", acctID);
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function persistLogin($username, $password){
$data = array("username" => $username, "password"=> $password);
setcookie ("userdata", $data);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
server.sin\_family = AF\_INET; hp = gethostbyname(argv[1]);
if (hp==NULL) error("Unknown host");
memcpy( (char \*)&server.sin\_addr,(char \*)hp->h\_addr,hp->h\_length);
if (argc < 3) port = 80;
else port = (unsigned short)atoi(argv[3]);
server.sin\_port = htons(port);
if (connect(sock, (struct sockaddr \*)&server, sizeof server) < 0) error("Connecting");
...
while ((n=read(sock,buffer,BUFSIZE-1))!=-1) {
write(dfd,password\_buffer,n);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/312.html 3/5Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
At least one OT product stored a password in plaintext.
Example 6
In 2021, a web site operated by PeopleGIS stored data of US municipalities in Amazon W eb Service (A WS) Simple Storage Service
(S3) buckets.
While it was not publicly disclosed how the data was protected after discovery , multiple options could have been considered.
Example 7
Consider the following PowerShell command examples for encryption scopes of Azure storage objects. In the first example, an
encryption scope is set for the storage account.
The result (edited and formatted for readability) might be:
However , the empty string under RequireInfrastructureEncryption indicates this service was not enabled at the time of creation,
because the -RequireInfrastructureEncryption argument was not specified in the command.
Including the -RequireInfrastructureEncryption argument addresses the issue:
This produces the report:
In a scenario where both software and hardware layer encryption is required ("double encryption"), Azure's infrastructure encryption
setting can be enabled via the CLI or Portal. An important note is that infrastructure hardware encryption cannot be enabled or
disabled after a blob is created. Furthermore, the default value for infrastructure encryption is disabled in blob creations.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-30275 Remote Terminal Unit (R TU) uses a driver that relies on a password stored in plaintext.
CVE-2009-2272 password and username stored in cleartext in a cookie
CVE-2009-1466 password stored in cleartext in a file with insecure permissions
CVE-2009-0152 chat program disables SSL in some circumstances even when the user says to use SSL.
CVE-2009-1603 Chain: product uses an incorrect public exponent when generating an RSA key, which ef fectively
disables the encryption
CVE-2009-0964 storage of unencrypted passwords in a database
CVE-2008-6157 storage of unencrypted passwords in a database(bad code) Example Language: Other 
A security researcher found 86 S3 buckets that could be accessed without authentication (CWE-306) and stored data unencrypted (CWE-
312). These buckets exposed over 1000 GB of data and 1.6 million files including physical addresses, phone numbers, tax documents,
pictures of driver's license IDs, etc. [REF-1296] [REF-1295]
(good code) Example Language: Other 
The sensitive information could have been protected by ensuring that the buckets did not have public read access, e.g., by enabling the
s3-account-level-public-access-blocks-periodic rule to Block Public Access. In addition, the data could have been encrypted at rest using
the appropriate S3 settings, e.g., by enabling server-side encryption using the s3-bucket-server-side-encryption-enabled setting. Other
settings are available to further prevent bucket data from being leaked. [REF-1297]
(bad code) Example Language: Shell 
New-AzStorageEncryptionScope -ResourceGroupName "MyResourceGroup" -AccountName "MyStorageAccount" -
EncryptionScopeName testscope -StorageEncryption
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
ResourceGroupName: MyResourceGroup, StorageAccountName: MyStorageAccount
Name State Source RequireInfrastructureEncryption
testscopeEnabledMicrosoft.Storage
(good code) Example Language: Shell 
New-AzStorageEncryptionScope -ResourceGroupName "MyResourceGroup" -AccountName "MyStorageAccount" -
EncryptionScopeName testscope -StorageEncryption -RequireInfrastructureEncryption
(result) Example Language: Other 
ResourceGroupName: MyResourceGroup, StorageAccountName: MyStorageAccount
Name State Source RequireInfrastructureEncryption
testscopeEnabledMicrosoft.KeyvaultTrue3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/312.html 4/5CVE-2008-6828 product stores a password in cleartext in memory
CVE-2008-1567 storage of a secret key in cleartext in a temporary file
CVE-2008-0174 SCADA product uses HTTP Basic Authentication, which is not encrypted
CVE-2007-5778 login credentials stored unencrypted in a registry key
CVE-2001-1481 Plaintext credentials in world-readable file.
CVE-2005-1828 Password in cleartext in config file.
CVE-2005-2209 Password in cleartext in config file.
CVE-2002-1696 Decrypted copy of a message written to disk given a combination of options and when user replies to
an encrypted message.
CVE-2004-2397 Plaintext storage of private key and passphrase in log file when user imports the key .
CVE-2002-1800 Admin password in plaintext in a cookie.
CVE-2001-1537 Default configuration has cleartext usernames/passwords in cookie.
CVE-2001-1536 Usernames/passwords in cleartext in cookies.
CVE-2005-2160 Authentication information stored in cleartext in a cookie.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; System Configuration; Operation
When storing data in the cloud (e.g., S3 buckets, Azure blobs, Google Cloud Storage, etc.), use the provider's controls to
encrypt the data at rest. [ REF-1297 ] [REF-1299 ] [REF-1301 ]
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 816 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A7 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 934 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A6 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1029 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1366 ICS Communications: Frail Security in Protocols
MemberOf 1368 ICS Dependencies (& Architecture): External Digital Systems
MemberOf 1402 Comprehensive Categorization: Encryption
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Terminology
Different people use "cleartext" and "plaintext" to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However , within cryptography , these
have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-
encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-
readable (such as base64 encoding).
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Plaintext Storage of Sensitive Information
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 4.1 a)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.1
 Related Attack Patterns
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-312: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/312.html 5/5CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-37 Retrieve Embedded Sensitive Data
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 9, "Protecting Secret Data" Page 299. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Encryption", Page 43. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-172] Chris W ysopal. "Mobile App Top 10 List". 2010-12-13. < https://www .veracode.com/blog/2010/12/mobile-app-top-10-
list>. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1295] WizCase. "Over 80 US Municipalities' Sensitive Information, Including Resident's Personal Data, Left V ulnerable in
Massive Data Breach". 2021-07-20. < https://www .wizcase.com/blog/us-municipality-breach-report/ >.
[REF-1296] Jonathan Greig. "1,000 GB of local government data exposed by Massachusetts software company". 2021-07-22.
.
[REF-1297] Amazon. "A WS Foundational Security Best Practices controls". 2022.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1299] Microsoft. "Azure encryption overview". 2022-08-18. < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/security/fundamentals/encryption-overview >. URL validated: 2022-10-11 .
[REF-1301] Google Cloud. "Default encryption at rest". 2022-10-11. < https://cloud.google.com/docs/security/encryption/default-
encryption >. URL validated: 2022-10-11 .
[REF-1307] Center for Internet Security . "CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark version 1.5.0". Section 3.2. 2022-08-16.
. URL validated: 2023-01-19 .
[REF-1310] Microsoft. "Enable infrastructure encryption for double encryption of data". 2022-07-14.
. URL validated: 2023-01-24 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names