3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous T ype
Weakness ID: 434
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allows the attacker to upload or transfer files of dangerous types that can be automatically processed within the product's
environment.
 Alternate T erms
Unrestricted File Upload: Used in vulnerability databases and elsewhere, but it is insuf ficiently precise. The phrase could be
interpreted as the lack of restrictions on the size or number of uploaded files, which is a resource
consumption issue.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 669 Incorrect Resource Transfer Between Spheres
PeerOf 351 Insuf ficient Type Distinction
PeerOf 436 Interpretation Conflict
PeerOf 430 Deployment of W rong Handler
CanFollow 73 External Control of File Name or Path
CanFollow 183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs
CanFollow 184 Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 429 Handler Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Architecture and DesignOMISSION: This weakness is caused by missing a security tactic during the architecture and design
phase.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
ASP.NET (Sometimes Prevalent)
PHP (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Sometimes Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
Arbitrary code execution is possible if an uploaded file is interpreted and executed as code by the
recipient. This is especially true for .asp and .php extensions uploaded to web servers because
these file types are often treated as automatically executable, even when file system permissions do
not specify execution. For example, in Unix environments, programs typically cannot run unless the
execute bit is set, but PHP programs may be executed by the web server without directly invoking
them on the operating system.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 2/7
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code intends to allow a user to upload a picture to the web server . The HTML code that drives the form on the user end
has an input field of type "file".
Once submitted, the form above sends the file to upload\_picture.php on the web server . PHP stores the file in a temporary location
until it is retrieved (or discarded) by the server side code. In this example, the file is moved to a more permanent pictures/ directory .
The problem with the above code is that there is no check regarding type of file being uploaded. Assuming that pictures/ is available in
the web document root, an attacker could upload a file with the name:
Since this filename ends in ".php" it can be executed by the web server . In the contents of this uploaded file, the attacker could use:
Once this file has been installed, the attacker can enter arbitrary commands to execute using a URL such as:
which runs the "ls -l" command - or any other type of command that the attacker wants to specify .
Example 2
The following code demonstrates the unrestricted upload of a file with a Java servlet and a path traversal vulnerability . The action
attribute of an HTML form is sending the upload file request to the Java servlet.(good code) Example Language: HTML 

Choose a file to upload:

  



(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
// Define the target location where the picture being
// uploaded is going to be saved.
$target = "pictures/" . basename($\_FILES['uploadedfile']['name']);
// Move the uploaded file to the new location.
if(move\_uploaded\_file($\_FILES['uploadedfile']['tmp\_name'], $target))
{
echo "The picture has been successfully uploaded.";
}
else
{
echo "There was an error uploading the picture, please try again.";
}
(attack code) 
malicious.php
(attack code) Example Language: PHP 
php
system($\_GET['cmd']);
?
(attack code) 
http://server.example.com/upload\_dir/malicious.php?cmd=ls%20-l
(good code) Example Language: HTML 

Choose a file to upload:

  

3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 3/7When submitted the Java servlet's doPost method will receive the request, extract the name of the file from the Http request header ,
read the file contents from the request and output the file to the local upload directory .
This code does not perform a check on the type of the file being uploaded ( CWE-434 ). This could allow an attacker to upload any
executable file or other file with malicious code.
Additionally , the creation of the Buf feredW riter object is subject to relative path traversal ( CWE-23 ). Since the code does not check the
filename that is provided in the header , an attacker can use "../" sequences to write to files outside of the intended directory .
Depending on the executing environment, the attacker may be able to specify arbitrary files to write to, leading to a wide variety of
consequences, from code execution, XSS ( CWE-79 ), or system crash.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2023-5227 PHP-based F AQ management app does not check the MIME type for uploaded images
CVE-2001-0901 Web-based mail product stores ".shtml" attachments that could contain SSI
CVE-2002-1841 PHP upload does not restrict file types
CVE-2005-1868 upload and execution of .php file
CVE-2005-1881 upload file with dangerous extension
CVE-2005-0254 program does not restrict file types
CVE-2004-2262 improper type checking of uploaded files
CVE-2006-4558 Double "php" extension leaves an active php extension in the generated filename.
CVE-2006-6994 ASP program allows upload of .asp files by bypassing client-side checks
CVE-2005-3288 ASP file upload
CVE-2006-2428 ASP file upload
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class FileUploadServlet extends HttpServlet {
...
protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
response.setContentType("text/html");
PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
String contentType = request.getContentType();
// the starting position of the boundary header
int ind = contentType.indexOf("boundary=");
String boundary = contentType.substring(ind+9);
String pLine = new String();
String uploadLocation = new String(UPLOAD\_DIRECTORY\_STRING); //Constant value
// verify that content type is multipart form data
if (contentType != null && contentType.indexOf("multipart/form-data") != -1) {
// extract the filename from the Http header
BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(request.getInputStream()));
...
pLine = br.readLine();
String filename = pLine.substring(pLine.lastIndexOf("\\"), pLine.lastIndexOf("\""));
...
// output the file to the local upload directory
try {
BufferedWriter bw = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter(uploadLocation+filename, true));
for (String line; (line=br.readLine())!=null; ) {
if (line.indexOf(boundary) == -1) {
bw.write(line);
bw.newLine();
bw.flush();
}
} //end of for loop
bw.close();
} catch (IOException ex) {...}
// output successful upload response HTML page
}
// output unsuccessful upload response HTML page
else
{...}
}
...
}3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 4/7Generate a new , unique filename for an uploaded file instead of using the user-supplied filename, so that no external input is
used at all.[ REF-422 ] [REF-423 ]
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input
values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Consider storing the uploaded files outside of the web document root entirely . Then, use other mechanisms to deliver the files
dynamically . [REF-423 ]
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
For example, limiting filenames to alphanumeric characters can help to restrict the introduction of unintended file extensions.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Define a very limited set of allowable extensions and only generate filenames that end in these extensions. Consider the
possibility of XSS ( CWE-79 ) before allowing .html or .htm file types.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Ensure that only one extension is used in the filename. Some web servers, including some versions of Apache, may process
files based on inner extensions so that "filename.php.gif" is fed to the PHP interpreter .[REF-422 ] [REF-423 ]
Phase: Implementation
When running on a web server that supports case-insensitive filenames, perform case-insensitive evaluations of the extensions
that are provided.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in
order to avoid CWE-602 . Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been
performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely . Then, these modified values would be submitted
to the server .
Phase: Implementation
Do not rely exclusively on sanity checks of file contents to ensure that the file is of the expected type and size. It may be
possible for an attacker to hide code in some file segments that will still be executed by the server . For example, GIF images
may contain a free-form comments field.
Phase: Implementation
Do not rely exclusively on the MIME content type or filename attribute when determining how to render a file. V alidating the
MIME content type and ensuring that it matches the extension is only a partial solution.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [ REF-76 ]. If possible, create
isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way , a successful attack will not immediately
give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as
the database administrator , especially in day-to-day operations.
Phases: Architecture and Design; Operation
Strategy: Sandbox or Jail
Run the code in a "jail" or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating
system. This may ef fectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed
by the software.
OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor , and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some
protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file
operations.3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 5/7This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be
subject to compromise.
Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.
Effectiveness: Limited
Note: The ef fectiveness of this mitigation depends on the prevention capabilities of the specific sandbox or jail being used and
might only help to reduce the scope of an attack, such as restricting the attacker to certain system calls or limiting the portion of
the file system that can be accessed.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This can be primary when there is no check at all.
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This is frequently resultant when use of double extensions (e.g. ".php.gif") bypasses a sanity check.
Resultant(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
This can be resultant from client-side enforcement ( CWE-602 ); some products will include web script in web clients
to check the filename, without verifying on the server side.
 Detection Methods
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 6/7
 Functional Areas
File Processing
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 714 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A3 - Malicious File Execution
MemberOf 801 2010 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 813 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A4 - Insecure Direct Object References
MemberOf 864 2011 Top 25 - Insecure Interaction Between Components
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1348 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A04:2021 - Insecure Design
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1364 ICS Communications: Zone Boundary Failures
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This can have a chaining relationship with incomplete denylist / permissive allowlist errors when the product tries, but fails, to
properly limit which types of files are allowed ( CWE-183 , CWE-184 ).
This can also overlap multiple interpretation errors for intermediaries, e.g. anti-virus products that do not remove or quarantine
attachments with certain file extensions that can be processed by client systems.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Unrestricted File Upload
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A3 CWE More Specific Malicious File Execution
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-434
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
 References
[REF-422] Richard Stanway (r1CH). "Dynamic File Uploads, Security and You".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-423] Johannes Ullrich. "8 Basic Rules to Implement Secure File Uploads". 2009-12-28. < https://www .sans.org/blog/8-basic-
rules-to-implement-secure-file-uploads/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-424] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 8 - Unrestricted Upload of Dangerous File Type". SANS Software Security
Institute. 2010-02-25. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-8-unrestricted-upload-of-dangerous-file-type/ >. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
3/7/24, 2:59 PM CWE - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/434.html 7/7[REF-76] Sean Barnum and Michael Gegick. "Least Privilege". 2005-09-14.
. URL
validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 17, "File
Uploading", Page 1068. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-434. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names