3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-80: Improper Neutralization of Script-Related HTML Tags in a Web Page (Basic XSS) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/80.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-80: Improper Neutralization of Script-Related HTML Tags in a W eb Page (Basic
XSS)
Weakness ID: 80
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special characters such
as "<", ">", and "&" that could be interpreted as web-scripting elements when they are sent to a downstream component that
processes web pages.
 Extended Description
This may allow such characters to be treated as control characters, which are executed client-side in the context of the user's session.
Although this can be classified as an injection problem, the more pertinent issue is the improper conversion of such special characters
to respective context-appropriate entities before displaying them to the user .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 79 Improper Neutralization of Input During W eb Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, a guestbook comment isn't properly encoded, filtered, or otherwise neutralized for script-related tags before
being displayed in a client browser .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0938 XSS in parameter in a link.
CVE-2002-1495 XSS in web-based email product via attachment filenames.
CVE-2003-1136 HTML injection in posted message.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JSP 
<% for (Iterator i = guestbook.iterator(); i.hasNext(); ) {
Entry e = (Entry) i.next(); %>
Entry #<%= e.getId() %>


<%= e.getText() %>


<%
} %>3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-80: Improper Neutralization of Script-Related HTML Tags in a Web Page (Basic XSS) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/80.html 2/3CVE-2004-2171 XSS not quoted in error page.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Carefully check each input parameter against a rigorous positive specification (allowlist) defining the specific characters and
format allowed. All input should be neutralized, not just parameters that the user is supposed to specify , but all data in the
request, including hidden fields, cookies, headers, the URL itself, and so forth. A common mistake that leads to continuing XSS
vulnerabilities is to validate only fields that are expected to be redisplayed by the site. W e often encounter data from the request
that is reflected by the application server or the application that the development team did not anticipate. Also, a field that is not
currently reflected may be used by a future developer . Therefore, validating ALL parts of the HTTP request is recommended.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.
The problem of inconsistent output encodings often arises in web pages. If an encoding is not specified in an HTTP header , web
browsers often guess about which encoding is being used. This can open up the browser to subtle XSS attacks.
Phase: Implementation
With Struts, write all data from form beans with the bean's filter attribute set to true.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Attack Surface Reduction
To help mitigate XSS attacks against the user's session cookie, set the session cookie to be HttpOnly . In browsers that support
the HttpOnly feature (such as more recent versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox), this attribute can prevent the user's session
cookie from being accessible to malicious client-side scripts that use document.cookie. This is not a complete solution, since
HttpOnly is not supported by all browsers. More importantly , XMLHTTPRequest and other powerful browser technologies
provide read access to HTTP headers, including the Set-Cookie header in which the HttpOnly flag is set.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1347 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A03:2021 - Injection
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-80: Improper Neutralization of Script-Related HTML Tags in a Web Page (Basic XSS) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/80.html 3/3Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Basic XSS
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-18 XSS Targeting Non-Script Elements
CAPEC-193 PHP Remote File Inclusion
CAPEC-32 XSS Through HTTP Query Strings
CAPEC-86 XSS Through HTTP Headers
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names