3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-67: Improper Handling of Windows Device Names (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/67.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-67: Improper Handling of W indows Device Names
Weakness ID: 67
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product constructs pathnames from user input, but it does not handle or incorrectly handles a pathname containing a Windows
device name such as AUX or CON. This typically leads to denial of service or an information exposure when the application attempts
to process the pathname as a regular file.
 Extended Description
Not properly handling virtual filenames (e.g. AUX, CON, PRN, COM1, LPT1) can result in dif ferent types of vulnerabilities. In some
cases an attacker can request a device via injection of a virtual filename in a URL, which may cause an error that leads to a denial of
service or an error page that reveals sensitive information. A product that allows device names to bypass filtering runs the risk of an
attacker injecting malicious code in a file with the name of a device.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 66 Improper Handling of File Names that Identify V irtual Resources
 Background Details
Historically , there was a bug in the Windows operating system that caused a blue screen of death. Even after that issue was fixed
DOS device names continue to be a factor .
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Windows (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Confidentiality
OtherTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Read Application Data; Other
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0106 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via a series of requests to .JSP files that
contain an MS-DOS device name.
CVE-2002-0200 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via an HTTP request for an MS-DOS
device name.
CVE-2002-1052 Product allows remote attackers to use MS-DOS device names in HTTP requests to cause a denial of
service or obtain the physical path of the server .
CVE-2001-0493 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via a URL that contains an MS-DOS device
name.
CVE-2001-0558 Server allows a remote attacker to create a denial of service via a URL request which includes a MS-
DOS device name.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-67: Improper Handling of Windows Device Names (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/67.html 2/3CVE-2000-0168 Microsoft Windows 9x operating systems allow an attacker to cause a denial of service via a pathname
that includes file device names, aka the "DOS Device in Path Name" vulnerability .
CVE-2001-0492 Server allows remote attackers to determine the physical path of the server via a URL containing MS-
DOS device names.
CVE-2004-0552 Product does not properly handle files whose names contain reserved MS-DOS device names, which
can allow malicious code to bypass detection when it is installed, copied, or executed.
CVE-2005-2195 Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (application crash) via a URL with a
filename containing a .cgi extension and an MS-DOS device name.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Be familiar with the device names in the operating system where your system is deployed. Check input for these device names.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 857 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 14 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1147 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 13. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1163 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 09. Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Windows MS-DOS device names
CER T C Secure Coding FIO32-C CWE More
SpecificDo not perform operations on devices that are only
appropriate for files
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)FIO00-J Do not operate on files in shared directories
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "Device Files",
Page 666. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-67: Improper Handling of Windows Device Names (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/67.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Previous Entry Names