3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials
Weakness ID: 798
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product contains hard-coded credentials, such as a password or cryptographic key , which it uses for its own inbound
authentication, outbound communication to external components, or encryption of internal data.
 Extended Description
Hard-coded credentials typically create a significant hole that allows an attacker to bypass the authentication that has been configured
by the product administrator . This hole might be dif ficult for the system administrator to detect. Even if detected, it can be dif ficult to
fix, so the administrator may be forced into disabling the product entirely . There are two main variations:
Inbound: the product contains an authentication mechanism that checks the input credentials against a hard-coded set of
credentials.
Outbound: the product connects to another system or component, and it contains hard-coded credentials for connecting to that
component.
In the Inbound variant, a default administration account is created, and a simple password is hard-coded into the product and
associated with that account. This hard-coded password is the same for each installation of the product, and it usually cannot be
changed or disabled by system administrators without manually modifying the program, or otherwise patching the product. If the
password is ever discovered or published (a common occurrence on the Internet), then anybody with knowledge of this password can
access the product. Finally , since all installations of the product will have the same password, even across dif ferent organizations, this
enables massive attacks such as worms to take place.
The Outbound variant applies to front-end systems that authenticate with a back-end service. The back-end service may require a
fixed password which can be easily discovered. The programmer may simply hard-code those back-end credentials into the front-end
product. Any user of that program may be able to extract the password. Client-side systems with hard-coded passwords pose even
more of a threat, since the extraction of a password from a binary is usually very simple.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 344 Use of Invariant V alue in Dynamically Changing Context
ChildOf 671 Lack of Administrator Control over Security
ChildOf 1391 Use of W eak Credentials
ParentOf 259 Use of Hard-coded Password
ParentOf 321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
PeerOf 257 Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 255 Credentials Management Errors
MemberOf 320 Key Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Mobile (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 2/7Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
If hard-coded passwords are used, it is almost certain that malicious users will gain access to the
account in question.
Integrity
Confidentiality
Availability
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands;
Other
This weakness can lead to the exposure of resources or functionality to unintended actors, possibly
providing attackers with sensitive information or even execute arbitrary code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses a hard-coded password to connect to a database:
This is an example of an external hard-coded password on the client-side of a connection. This code will run successfully , but anyone
who has access to it will have access to the password. Once the program has shipped, there is no going back from the database user
"scott" with a password of "tiger" unless the program is patched. A devious employee with access to this information can use it to
break into the system. Even worse, if attackers have access to the bytecode for application, they can use the javap -c command to
access the disassembled code, which will contain the values of the passwords used. The result of this operation might look something
like the following for the example above:
Example 2
The following code is an example of an internal hard-coded password in the back-end:
Every instance of this program can be placed into diagnostic mode with the same password. Even worse is the fact that if this
program is distributed as a binary-only distribution, it is very dif ficult to change that password or disable this "functionality ."
Example 3
The following code examples attempt to verify a password using a hard-coded cryptographic key .
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
DriverManager.getConnection(url, "scott", "tiger");
...
(attack code) 
javap -c ConnMngr.class
22: ldc #36; //String jdbc:mysql://ixne.com/rxsql
24: ldc #38; //String scott
26: ldc #17; //String tiger
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(password, "Mew!")) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0)
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (!password.equals("Mew!")) {
return(0)
}
//Diagnostic Mode
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(password,"68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 3/7The cryptographic key is within a hard-coded string value that is compared to the password. It is likely that an attacker will be able to
read the key and compromise the system.
Example 4
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.
Username and password information should not be included in a configuration file or a properties file in cleartext as this will allow
anyone who can read the file access to the resource. If possible, encrypt this information.
Example 5
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used hard-coded credentials in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29953 Condition Monitor firmware has a maintenance interface with hard-coded credentials
CVE-2022-29960 Engineering W orkstation uses hard-coded cryptographic keys that could allow for unathorized
filesystem access and privilege escalation
CVE-2022-29964 Distributed Control System (DCS) has hard-coded passwords for local shell accessprintf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0);
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public boolean VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (password.equals("68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {
System.out.println("Entering Diagnostic Mode...");
return true;
}
System.out.println("Incorrect Password!");
return false;
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (password.Equals("68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {
Console.WriteLine("Entering Diagnostic Mode...");
return(1);
}
Console.WriteLine("Incorrect Password!");
return(0);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 4/7CVE-2022-30997 Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) has a maintenance service that uses undocumented, hard-
coded credentials
CVE-2022-30314 Firmware for a Safety Instrumented System (SIS) has hard-coded credentials for access to boot
configuration
CVE-2022-30271 Remote Terminal Unit (R TU) uses a hard-coded SSH private key that is likely to be used in typical
deployments
CVE-2021-37555 Telnet service for IoT feeder for dogs and cats has hard-coded password [ REF-1288 ]
CVE-2021-35033 Firmware for a WiFi router uses a hard-coded password for a BusyBox shell, allowing bypass of
authentication through the UAR T port
CVE-2012-3503 Installation script has a hard-coded secret token value, allowing attackers to bypass authentication
CVE-2010-2772 SCADA system uses a hard-coded password to protect back-end database containing authorization
information, exploited by Stuxnet worm
CVE-2010-2073 FTP server library uses hard-coded usernames and passwords for three default accounts
CVE-2010-1573 Chain: Router firmware uses hard-coded username and password for access to debug functionality ,
which can be used to execute arbitrary code
CVE-2008-2369 Server uses hard-coded authentication key
CVE-2008-0961 Backup product uses hard-coded username and password, allowing attackers to bypass authentication
via the RPC interface
CVE-2008-1160 Security appliance uses hard-coded password allowing attackers to gain root access
CVE-2006-7142 Drive encryption product stores hard-coded cryptographic keys for encrypted configuration files in
executable programs
CVE-2005-3716 VoIP product uses hard-coded public credentials that cannot be changed, which allows attackers to
obtain sensitive information
CVE-2005-3803 VoIP product uses hard coded public and private SNMP community strings that cannot be changed,
which allows remote attackers to obtain sensitive information
CVE-2005-0496 Backup product contains hard-coded credentials that ef fectively serve as a back door , which allows
remote attackers to access the file system
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
For outbound authentication: store passwords, keys, and other credentials outside of the code in a strongly-protected, encrypted
configuration file or database that is protected from access by all outsiders, including other local users on the same system.
Properly protect the key ( CWE-320 ). If you cannot use encryption to protect the file, then make sure that the permissions are as
restrictive as possible [ REF-7 ].
In Windows environments, the Encrypted File System (EFS) may provide some protection.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For inbound authentication: Rather than hard-code a default username and password, key , or other authentication credentials
for first time logins, utilize a "first login" mode that requires the user to enter a unique strong password or key .
Phase: Architecture and Design
If the product must contain hard-coded credentials or they cannot be removed, perform access control checks and limit which
entities can access the feature that requires the hard-coded credentials. For example, a feature might only be enabled through
the system console instead of through a network connection.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For inbound authentication using passwords: apply strong one-way hashes to passwords and store those hashes in a
configuration file or database with appropriate access control. That way , theft of the file/database still requires the attacker to try
to crack the password. When handling an incoming password during authentication, take the hash of the password and compare
it to the saved hash.
Use randomly assigned salts for each separate hash that is generated. This increases the amount of computation that an
attacker needs to conduct a brute-force attack, possibly limiting the ef fectiveness of the rainbow table method.
Phase: Architecture and Design
For front-end to back-end connections: Three solutions are possible, although none are complete.
The first suggestion involves the use of generated passwords or keys that are changed automatically and must be
entered at given time intervals by a system administrator . These passwords will be held in memory and only be valid for
the time intervals.
Next, the passwords or keys should be limited at the back end to only performing actions valid for the front end, as
opposed to having full access.
Finally , the messages sent should be tagged and checksummed with time sensitive values so as to prevent replay-style
attacks.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 5/7Black Box
Credential storage in configuration files is findable using black box methods, but the use of hard-coded credentials for an
incoming authentication routine typically involves an account that is not visible outside of the code.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Automated Static Analysis
Automated white box techniques have been published for detecting hard-coded credentials for incoming authentication, but
there is some expert disagreement regarding their ef fectiveness and applicability to a broad range of methods.
Manual Static Analysis
This weakness may be detectable using manual code analysis. Unless authentication is decentralized and applied throughout
the product, there can be suf ficient time for the analyst to find incoming authentication routines and examine the program logic
looking for usage of hard-coded credentials. Configuration files could also be analyzed.
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
Manual Dynamic Analysis
For hard-coded credentials in incoming authentication: use monitoring tools that examine the product's process as it interacts
with the operating system and the network. This technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the product was
not developed by you, or if you want to verify that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include
debuggers that directly attach to the running process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux);
system activity monitors such as FileMon, RegMon, Process Monitor , and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and snif fers and
protocol analyzers that monitor network traf fic.
Attach the monitor to the process and perform a login. Using call trees or similar artifacts from the output, examine the
associated behaviors and see if any of them appear to be comparing the input to a fixed string or value.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Network Snif fer
Forced Path Execution
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 6/7According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 812 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 861 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 18 - Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 1131 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Security
MemberOf 1152 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 49. Miscellaneous (MSC)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)MSC03-J Never hard code sensitive information
OMG ASCSM ASCSM-
CWE-798
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 1.5
 Related Attack Patterns
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/798.html 7/7CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-191 Read Sensitive Constants Within an Executable
CAPEC-70 Try Common or Default Usernames and Passwords
 References
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 8, "Key Management Issues" Page 272. 2nd
Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-729] Johannes Ullrich. "T op 25 Series - Rank 11 - Hardcoded Credentials". SANS Software Security Institute. 2010-03-10.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-172] Chris W ysopal. "Mobile App Top 10 List". 2010-12-13. < https://www .veracode.com/blog/2010/12/mobile-app-top-10-
list>. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-962] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Security Measure (ASCSM)". ASCSM-CWE-798. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCSM/1.0/ >.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
[REF-1288] Julia Lokrantz. "Ethical hacking of a Smart Automatic Feed Dispenser". 2021-06-07. < http://kth.diva-
portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1561552/FULL TEXT01.pdf >.
[REF-1304] ICS-CER T. "ICS Alert (ICS-ALER T-13-164-01): Medical Devices Hard-Coded Passwords". 2013-06-13.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2010-01-15
(CWE 1.8, 2010-02-16)CWE Content Team MITRE
More abstract entry for hard-coded password and hard-coded cryptographic key.
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications