3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-61: UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/61.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-61: UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following
Weakness ID: 61
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product, when opening a file or directory , does not suf ficiently account for when the file is a symbolic link that resolves to a target
outside of the intended control sphere. This could allow an attacker to cause the product to operate on unauthorized files.
 Composite Components
Nature Type ID Name
Requires 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race Condition')
Requires 340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers
Requires 386 Symbolic Name not Mapping to Correct Object
Requires 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Extended Description
A product that allows UNIX symbolic links (symlink) as part of paths whether in internal code or through user input can allow an
attacker to spoof the symbolic link and traverse the file system to unintended locations or access arbitrary files. The symbolic link can
permit an attacker to read/write/corrupt a file that they originally did not have permissions to access.
 Alternate T erms
Symlink following
symlink vulnerability
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation These are typically reported for temporary files or privileged programs.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories; Modify Files or Directories
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-1999-1386 Some versions of Perl follow symbolic links when running with the -e option, which allows local users to
overwrite arbitrary files via a symlink attack.
CVE-2000-1178 Text editor follows symbolic links when creating a rescue copy during an abnormal exit, which allows
local users to overwrite the files of other users.
CVE-2004-0217 Antivirus update allows local users to create or append to arbitrary files via a symlink attack on a logfile.
CVE-2003-0517 Symlink attack allows local users to overwrite files.
CVE-2004-0689 Possible interesting example
CVE-2005-1879 Second-order symlink vulnerabilities
CVE-2005-1880 Second-order symlink vulnerabilitiesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
 (Structure: Composite)
ALLOWED
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-61: UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/61.html 2/3CVE-2005-1916 Symlink in Python program
CVE-2000-0972 Setuid product allows file reading by replacing a file being edited with a symlink to the targeted file,
leaking the result in error messages when parsing fails.
CVE-2005-0824 Signal causes a dump that follows symlinks.
CVE-2015-3629 A Libcontainer used in Docker Engine allows local users to escape containerization and write to an
arbitrary file on the host system via a symlink attack in an image when respawning a container .
CVE-2020-26277 In a MySQL database deployment tool, users may craft a maliciously packaged tarball that contains
symlinks to files external to the target and once unpacked, will execute.
CVE-2021-21272 "Zip Slip" vulnerability in Go-based Open Container Initiative (OCI) registries product allows writing
arbitrary files outside intended directory via symbolic links or hard links in a gzipped tarball.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Symbolic link attacks often occur when a program creates a tmp directory that stores files/links. Access to the directory should
be restricted to the program as to prevent attackers from manipulating the files.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Separation of Privilege
Follow the principle of least privilege when assigning access rights to entities in a software system.
Denying access to a file can prevent an attacker from replacing that file with a link to a sensitive file. Ensure good
compartmentalization in the system to provide protected areas that can be trusted.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This is a well-known Composite of multiple weaknesses that must all occur simultaneously , although it is attack-oriented in nature.
Comments:
While attack-oriented composites are supported in CWE, they have not been a focus of research. There is a chance that future
research or CWE scope clarifications will change or deprecate them. Perform root-cause analysis to determine which
weaknesses allow symlink following to occur , and map to those weaknesses. For example, predictable file names might be
intended functionality , but creation in a directory with insecure permissions might not.
 Notes
Research Gap
Symlink vulnerabilities are regularly found in C and shell programs, but all programming languages can have this problem. Even
shell programs are probably under-reported.
"Second-order symlink vulnerabilities" may exist in programs that invoke other programs that follow symlinks. They are rarely
reported but are likely to be fairly common when process invocation is used [ REF-493 ].
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER UNIX symbolic link following
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-27 Leveraging Race Conditions via Symbolic Links
 References
[REF-493] Steve Christey . "Second-Order Symlink V ulnerabilities". Bugtraq. 2005-06-07.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-494] Shaun Colley . "Crafting Symlinks for Fun and Profit". Infosec W riters Text Library . 2004-04-12.
.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Symbolic Link
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-61: UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/61.html 3/3Attacks", Page 518. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications