3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 1/8
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer
Weakness ID: 119
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs operations on a memory buf fer, but it can read from or write to a memory location that is outside of the intended
boundary of the buf fer.
 Extended Description
Certain languages allow direct addressing of memory locations and do not automatically ensure that these locations are valid for the
memory buf fer that is being referenced. This can cause read or write operations to be performed on memory locations that may be
associated with other variables, data structures, or internal program data.
As a result, an attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code, alter the intended control flow , read sensitive information, or cause the
system to crash.
 Alternate T erms
Buffer Overflow: This term has many dif ferent meanings to dif ferent audiences. From a CWE mapping perspective, this term
should be avoided where possible. Some researchers, developers, and tools intend for it to mean "write past
the end of a buf fer," whereas others use the same term to mean "any read or write outside the boundaries of
a buf fer, whether before the beginning of the buf fer or after the end of the buf fer." Still others using the same
term could mean "any action after the end of a buf fer, whether it is a read or write." Since the term is
commonly used for exploitation and for vulnerabilities, it further confuses things.
buffer overrun: Some prominent vendors and researchers use the term "buf fer overrun," but most people use "buf fer
overflow ." See the alternate term for "buf fer overflow" for context.
memory safety: Generally used for techniques that avoid weaknesses related to memory access, such as those identified by
CWE-119 and its descendants. However , the term is not formal, and there is likely disagreement between
practitioners as to which weaknesses are implicitly covered by the "memory safety" term.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 118 Incorrect Access of Indexable Resource ('Range Error')
ParentOf 120 Buffer Copy without Checking Size of Input ('Classic Buf fer Overflow')
ParentOf 125 Out-of-bounds Read
ParentOf 466 Return of Pointer V alue Outside of Expected Range
ParentOf 786 Access of Memory Location Before Start of Buf fer
ParentOf 787 Out-of-bounds W rite
ParentOf 788 Access of Memory Location After End of Buf fer
ParentOf 805 Buffer Access with Incorrect Length V alue
ParentOf 822 Untrusted Pointer Dereference
ParentOf 823 Use of Out-of-range Pointer Of fset
ParentOf 824 Access of Uninitialized Pointer
ParentOf 825 Expired Pointer Dereference
CanFollow 20 Improper Input V alidation
CanFollow 128 Wrap-around Error
CanFollow 129 Improper V alidation of Array Index
CanFollow 131 Incorrect Calculation of Buf fer Size
CanFollow 190 Integer Overflow or W raparound
CanFollow 193 Off-by-one Error
CanFollow 195 Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error
CanFollow 839 Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check
CanFollow 843 Access of Resource Using Incompatible Type ('T ype Confusion')
CanFollow 1257 Improper Access Control Applied to Mirrored or Aliased Memory Regions
CanFollow 1260 Improper Handling of Overlap Between Protected Memory Ranges
CanFollow 1339 Insuf ficient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 2/8
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Class: Assembly (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; Modify Memory
If the memory accessible by the attacker can be ef fectively controlled, it may be possible to execute
arbitrary code, as with a standard buf fer overflow . If the attacker can overwrite a pointer's worth of
memory (usually 32 or 64 bits), they can redirect a function pointer to their own malicious code. Even
when the attacker can only modify a single byte arbitrary code execution can be possible.
Sometimes this is because the same problem can be exploited repeatedly to the same ef fect. Other
times it is because the attacker can overwrite security-critical application-specific data -- such as a
flag indicating whether the user is an administrator .
Availability
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (CPU); DoS: Resource
Consumption (Memory)
Out of bounds memory access will very likely result in the corruption of relevant memory , and
perhaps instructions, possibly leading to a crash. Other attacks leading to lack of availability are
possible, including putting the program into an infinite loop.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
In the case of an out-of-bounds read, the attacker may have access to sensitive information. If the
sensitive information contains system details, such as the current buf fers position in memory , this
knowledge can be used to craft further attacks, possibly with more severe consequences.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This example takes an IP address from a user , verifies that it is well formed and then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
This function allocates a buf fer of 64 bytes to store the hostname, however there is no guarantee that the hostname will not be larger
than 64 bytes. If an attacker specifies an address which resolves to a very large hostname, then the function may overwrite sensitive
data or even relinquish control flow to the attacker .
Note that this example also contains an unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) that can lead to a NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
Example 2
This example applies an encoding procedure to an input string and stores it into a buf fer.
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \* copy\_input(char \*user\_supplied\_string){
int i, dst\_index;
char \*dst\_buf = (char\*)malloc(4\*sizeof(char) \* MAX\_SIZE);
if(MAXSIZE= 0 && index < len) {
...3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 5/8Phase: Implementation
Consider adhering to the following rules when allocating and managing an application's memory:
Double check that the buf fer is as large as specified.
When using functions that accept a number of bytes to copy , such as strncpy(), be aware that if the destination buf fer
size is equal to the source buf fer size, it may not NULL-terminate the string.
Check buf fer boundaries if accessing the buf fer in a loop and make sure there is no danger of writing past the allocated
space.
If necessary , truncate all input strings to a reasonable length before passing them to the copy and concatenation
functions.
Phases: Operation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and
libraries in memory . Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to
exploitable code.
Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [ REF-58 ] [REF-60 ] and Position-Independent Executables
(PIE) [ REF-64 ]. Imported modules may be similarly realigned if their default memory addresses conflict with other modules, in a
process known as "rebasing" (for Windows) and "prelinking" (for Linux) [ REF-1332 ] using randomly generated addresses. ASLR
for libraries cannot be used in conjunction with prelink since it would require relocating the libraries at run-time, defeating the
whole purpose of prelinking.
For more information on these techniques see D3-SAOR (Segment Address Of fset Randomization) from D3FEND [ REF-1335 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: These techniques do not provide a complete solution. For instance, exploits frequently use a bug that discloses memory
addresses in order to maximize reliability of code execution [ REF-1337 ]. It has also been shown that a side-channel attack can
bypass ASLR [ REF-1333 ]
Phase: Operation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Use a CPU and operating system that of fers Data Execution Protection (using hardware NX or XD bits) or the equivalent
techniques that simulate this feature in software, such as PaX [ REF-60 ] [REF-61 ]. These techniques ensure that any instruction
executed is exclusively at a memory address that is part of the code segment.
For more information on these techniques see D3-PSEP (Process Segment Execution Prevention) from D3FEND [ REF-1336 ].
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Note: This is not a complete solution, since buf fer overflows could be used to overwrite nearby variables to modify the software's
state in dangerous ways. In addition, it cannot be used in cases in which self-modifying code is required. Finally , an attack could
still cause a denial of service, since the typical response is to exit the application.
Phase: Implementation
Replace unbounded copy functions with analogous functions that support length arguments, such as strcpy with strncpy . Create
these if they are not available.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: This approach is still susceptible to calculation errors, including issues such as of f-by-one errors ( CWE-193 ) and incorrectly
calculating buf fer lengths ( CWE-131 ).
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or
constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives.
Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting out-of-bounds memory
operations. This can make it dif ficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an analysis
tool might report buf fer overflows that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run with
setuid or other special privileges.
Effectiveness: High
Note: Detection techniques for buf fer-related errors are more mature than for most other weakness types.
Automated Dynamic Analysis
This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with
many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow
down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
Automated Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode Quality Analysis
Bytecode W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis
Binary W eakness Analysis - including disassembler + source code weakness analysis3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 6/8Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source Code Quality Analyzer
Effectiveness: High
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
Memory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 635 Weaknesses Originally Used by NVD from 2008 to 2016
MemberOf 726 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A5 - Buf fer Overflows
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 7/8MemberOf 740 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 7 - Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 741 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 8 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 742 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 9 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 744 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 11 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 874 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 06 - Arrays and the STL (ARR)
MemberOf 875 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 07 - Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 876 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 08 - Memory Management (MEM)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 878 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 10 - Environment (ENV)
MemberOf 970 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Buf fer Access
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1160 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 06. Arrays (ARR)
MemberOf 1161 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 07. Characters and Strings (STR)
MemberOf 1200 Weaknesses in the 2019 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1337 Weaknesses in the 2021 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1350 Weaknesses in the 2020 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1387 Weaknesses in the 2022 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
MemberOf 1399 Comprehensive Categorization: Memory Safety
MemberOf 1425 Weaknesses in the 2023 CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software W eaknesses
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Frequent Misuse
Rationale:
CWE-119 is commonly misused in low-information vulnerability reports when lower-level CWEs could be used instead, or when
more details about the vulnerability are available.
Comments:
Look at CWE-119 's children and consider mapping to CWEs such as CWE-787 : Out-of-bounds W rite, CWE-125 : Out-of-bounds
Read, or others.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
It is possible in any programming languages without memory management support to attempt an operation outside of the bounds of
a memory buf fer, but the consequences will vary widely depending on the language, platform, and chip architecture.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A5 Exact Buffer Overflows
CER T C Secure Coding ARR00-C Understand how arrays work
CER T C Secure Coding ARR30-C CWE More
AbstractDo not form or use out-of-bounds pointers or array subscripts
CER T C Secure Coding ARR38-C CWE More
AbstractGuarantee that library functions do not form invalid pointers
CER T C Secure Coding ENV01-C Do not make assumptions about the size of an environment
variable
CER T C Secure Coding EXP39-C Imprecise Do not access a variable through a pointer of an incompatible
type
CER T C Secure Coding FIO37-C Do not assume character data has been read
CER T C Secure Coding STR31-C CWE More
AbstractGuarantee that storage for strings has suf ficient space for
character data and the null terminator
CER T C Secure Coding STR32-C CWE More
AbstractDo not pass a non-null-terminated character sequence to a
library function that expects a string
WASC 7 Buffer Overflow
Software Fault Patterns SFP8 Faulty Buf fer Access
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-10 Buffer Overflow via Environment V ariables
CAPEC-100 Overflow Buf fers
CAPEC-123 Buffer Manipulation
CAPEC-14 Client-side Injection-induced Buf fer Overflow
3/7/24, 2:45 PM CWE - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buﬀer (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/119.html 8/8CAPEC-24 Filter Failure through Buf fer Overflow
CAPEC-42 MIME Conversion
CAPEC-44 Overflow Binary Resource File
CAPEC-45 Buffer Overflow via Symbolic Links
CAPEC-46 Overflow V ariables and Tags
CAPEC-47 Buffer Overflow via Parameter Expansion
CAPEC-8 Buffer Overflow in an API Call
CAPEC-9 Buffer Overflow in Local Command-Line Utilities
 References
[REF-1029] Aleph One. "Smashing The Stack For Fun And Profit". 1996-11-08. < http://phrack.org/issues/49/14.html >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Public Enemy #1: The Buf fer Overrun" Page
127; Chapter 14, "Prevent I18N Buf fer Overruns" Page 441. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-56] Microsoft. "Using the Strsafe.h Functions". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/menurc/strsafe-ovw?
redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-57] Matt Messier and John V iega. "Safe C String Library v1.0.3". < http://www .gnu-darwin.org/www001/ports-1.5a-
CURRENT/devel/safestr/work/safestr-1.0.3/doc/safestr .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-59] Arjan van de V en. "Limiting buf fer overflows with ExecShield". < https://archive.is/saAFo >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Memory
Corruption", Page 167. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names