3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1246: Improper Write Handling in Limited-write Non-Volatile Memories (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1246.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1246: Improper W rite Handling in Limited-write Non-V olatile Memories
Weakness ID: 1246
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not implement or incorrectly implements wear leveling operations in limited-write non-volatile memories.
 Extended Description
Non-volatile memories such as NAND Flash, EEPROM, etc. have individually erasable segments, each of which can be put through a
limited number of program/erase or write cycles. For example, the device can only endure a limited number of writes, after which the
device becomes unreliable. In order to wear out the cells in a uniform manner , non-volatile memory and storage products based on
the above-mentioned technologies implement a technique called wear leveling. Once a set threshold is reached, wear leveling maps
writes of a logical block to a dif ferent physical block. This prevents a single physical block from prematurely failing due to a high
concentration of writes. If wear leveling is improperly implemented, attackers may be able to programmatically cause the storage to
become unreliable within a much shorter time than would normally be expected.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 400 Uncontrolled Resource Consumption
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1202 Memory and Storage Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
Memory Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Storage Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Instability
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
An attacker can render a memory line unusable by repeatedly causing a write to the memory line.
Below is example code from [ REF-1058 ] that the user can execute repeatedly to cause line failure. W is the maximum associativity of
any cache in the system; S is the size of the largest cache in the system.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(attack code) Example Language: C++ 3/7/24, 2:46 PM CWE - CWE-1246: Improper Write Handling in Limited-write Non-Volatile Memories (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1246.html 2/2Without wear leveling, the above attack will be successful. Simple randomization of blocks will not suf fice as instead of the original
physical block, the randomized physical block will be worn out.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation; T esting
Include secure wear leveling algorithms and ensure they may not be bypassed.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-4
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SI-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SVV -3
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-212 Functionality Misuse
 References
[REF-1058] Moinuddin Qureshi, Michele Franchescini, V ijayalakshmi Srinivasan, Luis Lastras, Bulent Abali and John Karidis.
"Enhancing Lifetime and Security of PCM-Based Main Memory with Start-Gap W ear Leveling".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1059] Micron. "Bad Block Management in NAND Flash Memory".
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-02-10
(CWE 4.0, 2020-02-24)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha
Kumar V MangipudiIntel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT
SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications
// Do aligned alloc of (W+1) arrays each of size S
while(1) {
for (ii = 0; ii < W + 1; ii++)
array[ii].element[0]++;
}
(good code) 
Wear leveling must be used to even out writes to the device.