3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1331: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1331.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1331: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC)
Weakness ID: 1331
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The Network On Chip (NoC) does not isolate or incorrectly isolates its on-chip-fabric and internal resources such that they are shared
between trusted and untrusted agents, creating timing channels.
 Extended Description
Typically , network on chips (NoC) have many internal resources that are shared between packets from dif ferent trust domains. These
resources include internal buf fers, crossbars and switches, individual ports, and channels. The sharing of resources causes
contention and introduces interference between dif ferently trusted domains, which poses a security threat via a timing channel,
allowing attackers to infer data that belongs to a trusted agent. This may also result in introducing network interference, resulting in
degraded throughput and latency .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 653 Improper Isolation or Compartmentalization
PeerOf 1189 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1203 Peripherals, On-chip Fabric, and Interface/IO Problems
PeerOf 1189 Improper Isolation of Shared Resources on System-on-a-Chip (SoC)
 Background Details
"Network-on-chip" (NoC) is a commonly-used term used for hardware interconnect fabrics used by multicore Systems-on-Chip (SoC).
Communication between modules on the chip uses packet-based methods, with improved ef ficiency and scalability compared to bus
architectures [ REF-1241 ].
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Security Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Varies by Context; Other
Attackers may infer data that belongs to a trusted agent. The methods used to perform this attack
may result in noticeably increased resource consumption.MediumAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1331: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1331.html 2/3
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Consider a NoC that implements a one-dimensional mesh network with four nodes. This supports two flows: Flow A from node 0 to
node 3 (via node 1 and node 2) and Flow B from node 1 to node 2. Flows A and B share a common link between Node 1 and Node 2.
Only one flow can use the link in each cycle.
One of the masters to this NoC implements a cryptographic algorithm (RSA), and another master to the NoC is a core that can be
exercised by an attacker . The RSA algorithm performs a modulo multiplication of two large numbers and depends on each bit of the
secret key . The algorithm examines each bit in the secret key and only performs multiplication if the bit is 1. This algorithm is known to
be prone to timing attacks. Whenever RSA performs multiplication, there is additional network traf fic to the memory controller . One of
the reasons for this is cache conflicts.
Since this is a one-dimensional mesh, only one flow can use the link in each cycle. Also, packets from the attack program and the
RSA program share the output port of the network-on-chip. This contention results in network interference, and the throughput and
latency of one flow can be af fected by the other flow's demand.
There may be dif ferent ways to fix this particular weakness.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-33096 Improper isolation of shared resource in a network-on-chip leads to denial of service
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Implement priority-based arbitration inside the NoC and have dedicated buf fers or virtual channels for routing secret data from
trusted agents.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
Providing marker flags to send through the interfaces coupled with examination of which users are able to read or manipulate
the flags will help verify that the proper isolation has been achieved and is ef fective.
Effectiveness: Moderate
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1418 Comprehensive Categorization: V iolation of Secure Design Principles
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
(attack code) 
The attacker runs a loop program on the core they control, and this causes a cache miss in every iteration for the RSA algorithm. Thus, by
observing network-traffic bandwidth and timing, the attack program can determine when the RSA algorithm is doing a multiply operation
(i.e., when the secret key bit is 1) and eventually extract the entire, secret key.
(good code) Example Language: Other 
Implement priority-based arbitration inside the NoC and have dedicated buffers or virtual channels for routing secret data from trusted
agents.3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1331: Improper Isolation of Shared Resources in Network On Chip (NoC) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1331.html 3/3CAPEC-124 Shared Resource Manipulation
 References
[REF-1155] Hassan M. G. W assel, Ying Gao, Jason K. Oberg, Tedd Huf fmire, Ryan Kastner , Frederic T. Chong, Timothy
Sherwood. "SurfNoC: A Low Latency and Provably Non-Interfering Approach to Secure Networks-On-Chip". 2013.
.
[REF-1241] Wikipedia. "Network on a chip". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network\_on\_a\_chip >. URL validated: 2021-10-24 .
[REF-1242] Subodha Charles and Prabhat Mishra. "A Survey of Network-on-Chip Security Attacks and Countermeasures". ACM
Computing Surveys. 2021-05. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/fullHtml/10.1145/3450964 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1245] Subodha Charles. "Design of Secure and Trustworthy Network-on-chip Architectures". 2020.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-23
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna Intel Corporation
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2021-10-22 Hareesh Khattri Intel Corporation
provided references and background information
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names