3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-36: Absolute Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/36.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-36: Absolute Path T raversal
Weakness ID: 36
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory , but it does not properly neutralize
absolute path sequences such as "/abs/path" that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory .
 Extended Description
This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
ParentOf 37 Path Traversal: '/absolute/pathname/here'
ParentOf 38 Path Traversal: '\absolute\pathname\here'
ParentOf 39 Path Traversal: 'C:dirname'
ParentOf 40 Path Traversal: '\\UNC\share\name\' (Windows UNC Share)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The attacker may be able to create or overwrite critical files that are used to execute code, such as
programs or libraries.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Files or Directories
The attacker may be able to overwrite or create critical files, such as programs, libraries, or important
data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass
that mechanism. For example, appending a new account at the end of a password file may allow an
attacker to bypass authentication.
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Files or Directories
The attacker may be able read the contents of unexpected files and expose sensitive data. If the
targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that
mechanism. For example, by reading a password file, the attacker could conduct brute force
password guessing attacks in order to break into an account on the system.
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The attacker may be able to overwrite, delete, or corrupt unexpected critical files such as programs,
libraries, or important data. This may prevent the product from working at all and in the case of a
protection mechanisms such as authentication, it has the potential to lockout every user of the
product.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-36: Absolute Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/36.html 2/3In the example below , the path to a dictionary file is read from a system property and used to initialize a File object.
However , the path is not validated or modified to prevent it from containing relative or absolute path sequences before creating the
File object. This allows anyone who can control the system property to determine what file is used. Ideally , the path should be
resolved relative to some kind of application or user home directory .
Example 2
This script intends to read a user-supplied file from the current directory . The user inputs the relative path to the file and the script
uses Python's os.path.join() function to combine the path to the current working directory with the provided path to the specified file.
This results in an absolute path to the desired file. If the file does not exist when the script attempts to read it, an error is printed to the
user.
However , if the user supplies an absolute path, the os.path.join() function will discard the path to the current working directory and use
only the absolute path provided. For example, if the current working directory is /home/user/documents, but the user inputs
/etc/passwd, os.path.join() will use only /etc/passwd, as it is considered an absolute path. In the above scenario, this would cause the
script to access and read the /etc/passwd file.
The constructed path string uses os.sep to add the appropriate separation character for the given operating system (e.g. '\' or '/') and
the call to os.path.normpath() removes any additional slashes that may have been entered - this may occur particularly when using a
Windows path. By putting the pieces of the path string together in this fashion, the script avoids a call to os.path.join() and any
potential issues that might arise if an absolute path is entered. With this version of the script, if the current working directory is
/home/user/documents, and the user inputs /etc/passwd, the resulting path will be /home/user/documents/etc/passwd. The user is
therefore contained within the current working directory as intended.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-31503 Python package constructs filenames using an unsafe os.path.join call on untrusted input, allowing
absolute path traversal because os.path.join resets the pathname to an absolute path that is specified
as part of the input.
CVE-2002-1345 Multiple FTP clients write arbitrary files via absolute paths in server responses
CVE-2001-1269 ZIP file extractor allows full path
CVE-2002-1818 Path traversal using absolute pathname
CVE-2002-1913 Path traversal using absolute pathname
CVE-2005-2147 Path traversal using absolute pathname
CVE-2000-0614 Arbitrary files may be overwritten via compressed attachments that specify absolute path names for the
decompressed output.
CVE-1999-1263 Mail client allows remote attackers to overwrite arbitrary files via an e-mail message containing a
uuencoded attachment that specifies the full pathname for the file to be modified.
CVE-2003-0753 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via a full pathname to the target file in config parameter .
CVE-2002-1525 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via an absolute pathname.
CVE-2001-0038 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files by specifying the drive letter in the requested URL.
CVE-2001-0255 FTP server allows remote attackers to list arbitrary directories by using the "ls" command and including
the drive letter name (e.g. C:) in the requested pathname.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String filename = System.getProperty("com.domain.application.dictionaryFile");
File dictionaryFile = new File(filename);
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import os
import sys
def main():
filename = sys.argv[1]
path = os.path.join(os.getcwd(), filename)
try:
with open(path, 'r') as f:
file\_data = f.read()
except FileNotFoundError as e:
print("Error - file not found")
main()
(good code) Example Language: Python 
import os
import sys
def main():
filename = sys.argv[1]
path = os.path.normpath(f"{os.getcwd()}{os.sep}{filename}")
try:
with open(path, 'r') as f:
file\_data = f.read()
except FileNotFoundError as e:
print("Error - file not found")
main()3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-36: Absolute Path Traversal (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/36.html 3/3CVE-2001-0933 FTP server allows remote attackers to list the contents of arbitrary drives via a ls command that
includes the drive letter as an argument.
CVE-2002-0466 Server allows remote attackers to browse arbitrary directories via a full pathname in the arguments to
certain dynamic pages.
CVE-2002-1483 Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via an HTTP request whose argument is a filename of the
form "C:" (Drive letter), "//absolute/path", or ".." .
CVE-2004-2488 FTP server read/access arbitrary files using "C:\" filenames
CVE-2001-0687 FTP server allows a remote attacker to retrieve privileged web server system information by specifying
arbitrary paths in the UNC format (\\computername\sharename).
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 981 SFP Secondary Cluster: Path Traversal
MemberOf 1404 Comprehensive Categorization: File Handling
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Absolute Path Traversal
Software Fault Patterns SFP16 Path Traversal
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-597 Absolute Path Traversal
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "Filenames and
Paths", Page 503. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
