3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-11: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Creating Debug Binary (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/11.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-11: ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Creating Debug Binary
Weakness ID: 11
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Debugging messages help attackers learn about the system and plan a form of attack.
 Extended Description
ASP .NET applications can be configured to produce debug binaries. These binaries give detailed debugging messages and should
not be used in production environments. Debug binaries are meant to be used in a development or testing environment and can pose
a security risk if they are deployed to production.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 489 Active Debug Code
 Background Details
The debug attribute of the  tag defines whether compiled binaries should include debugging information. The use of
debug binaries causes an application to provide as much information about itself as possible to the user .
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
Build and Compilation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
ASP.NET (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
Attackers can leverage the additional information they gain from debugging output to mount attacks
targeted on the framework, database, or other resources used by the application.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The file web.config contains the debug mode setting. Setting debug to "true" will let the browser display debugging information.
Change the debug mode to false when the application is deployed into production.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System ConfigurationAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 
xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?



...

3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-11: ASP.NET Misconﬁguration: Creating Debug Binary (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/11.html 2/2Avoid releasing debug binaries into the production environment. Change the debug mode to false when the application is
deployed into production.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 2 7PK - Environment
MemberOf 731 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A10 - Insecure Configuration Management
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1349 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A05:2021 - Security Misconfiguration
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms ASP.NET Misconfiguration: Creating Debug Binary
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
