3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1299: Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1299.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1299: Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface
Weakness ID: 1299
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The lack of protections on alternate paths to access control-protected assets (such as unprotected shadow registers and other
external facing unguarded interfaces) allows an attacker to bypass existing protections to the asset that are only performed against
the primary path.
 Extended Description
An asset inside a chip might have access-control protections through one interface. However , if all paths to the asset are not
protected, an attacker might compromise the asset through alternate paths. These alternate paths could be through shadow or mirror
registers inside the IP core, or could be paths from other external-facing interfaces to the IP core or SoC.
Consider an SoC with various interfaces such as UAR T, SMBUS, PCIe, USB, etc. If access control is implemented for SoC internal
registers only over the PCIe interface, then an attacker could still modify the SoC internal registers through alternate paths by coming
through interfaces such as UAR T, SMBUS, USB, etc.
Alternatively , attackers might be able to bypass existing protections by exploiting unprotected, shadow registers. Shadow registers
and mirror registers typically refer to registers that can be accessed from multiple addresses. W riting to or reading from the
aliased/mirrored address has the same ef fect as writing to the address of the main register . They are typically implemented within an
IP core or SoC to temporarily hold certain data. These data will later be updated to the main register , and both registers will be in
synch. If the shadow registers are not access-protected, attackers could simply initiate transactions to the shadow registers and
compromise system security .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 288 Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
ChildOf 420 Unprotected Alternate Channel
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
PeerOf 1191 On-Chip Debug and Test Interface With Improper Access Control
PeerOf 1314 Missing W rite Protection for Parametric Data V alues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Microcontroller Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Bus/Interface Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1299: Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1299.html 2/3
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; Read Memory; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity; Alter Execution Logic; Bypass Protection Mechanism; Quality DegradationHigh
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Register SECURE\_ME is located at address 0xF00. A mirror of this register called COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is at location 0x800F00.
The register SECURE\_ME is protected from malicious agents and only allows access to select, while COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME is
not.
Access control is implemented using an allowlist (as indicated by acl\_oh\_allowlist). The identity of the initiator of the transaction is
indicated by the one hot input, incoming\_id. This is checked against the acl\_oh\_allowlist (which contains a list of initiators that are
allowed to access the asset).
Though this example is shown in V erilog, it will apply to VHDL as well.
The bugged line of code is repeated in the Bad example above. The weakness arises from the fact that the SECURE\_ME register can
be modified by writing to the shadow register COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME. The address of COPY\_OF\_SECURE\_ME should also be
included in the check. That buggy line of code should instead be replaced as shown in the Good Code Snippet below .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-38399 Missing protection mechanism on serial connection allows for arbitrary OS command execution.
CVE-2020-9285 Mini-PCI Express slot does not restrict direct memory access.
CVE-2020-8004 When the internal flash is protected by blocking access on the Data Bus (DBUS), it can still be
indirectly accessed through the Instruction Bus (IBUS).
CVE-2017-18293 When GPIO is protected by blocking access to corresponding GPIO resource registers, protection can
be bypassed by writing to the corresponding banked GPIO registers instead.
CVE-2020-15483 monitor device allows access to physical UAR T debug port without authentication
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Requirements
Protect assets from accesses against all potential interfaces and alternate paths.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Architecture and Design
(informative) Example Language: Verilog 
module foo\_bar(data\_out, data\_in, incoming\_id, address, clk, rst\_n);
output [31:0] data\_out;
input [31:0] data\_in, incoming\_id, address;
input clk, rst\_n;
wire write\_auth, addr\_auth;
reg [31:0] data\_out, acl\_oh\_allowlist, q;
assign write\_auth = | (incoming\_id & acl\_oh\_allowlist) ? 1 : 0;
always @\*
acl\_oh\_allowlist <= 32'h8312;
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
always @ (posedge clk or negedge rst\_n)
if (!rst\_n)
begin
q <= 32'h0;
data\_out <= 32'h0;
end
else
begin
q <= (addr\_auth & write\_auth) ? data\_in: q;
data\_out <= q;
end
end
endmodule
(bad code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00) ? 1: 0;
(good code) Example Language: Verilog 
assign addr\_auth = (address == 32'hF00 || address == 32'h800F00) ? 1: 0;3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1299: Missing Protection Mechanism for Alternate Hardware Interface (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1299.html 3/3Protect assets from accesses against all potential interfaces and alternate paths.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
Phase: Implementation
Protect assets from accesses against all potential interfaces and alternate paths.
Effectiveness: Defense in Depth
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-457 USB Memory Attacks
CAPEC-554 Functionality Bypass
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2019-10-02
(CWE 4.2, 2020-08-20)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna, Narasimha Kumar V
MangipudiIntel
Corporation
 Modifications
