3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-173: Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/173.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-173: Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding
Weakness ID: 173
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly handle when an input uses an alternate encoding that is valid for the control sphere to which the input
is being sent.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 172 Encoding Error
CanPrecede 289 Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common
encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a
different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be
erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as
special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct
injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being
used by the downstream component.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-173: Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/173.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Alternate Encoding
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-120 Double Encoding
CAPEC-267 Leverage Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-3 Using Leading 'Ghost' Character Sequences to Bypass Input Filters
CAPEC-4 Using Alternative IP Address Encodings
CAPEC-52 Embedding NULL Bytes
CAPEC-53 Postfix, Null Terminate, and Backslash
CAPEC-64 Using Slashes and URL Encoding Combined to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-71 Using Unicode Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
CAPEC-72 URL Encoding
CAPEC-78 Using Escaped Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-79 Using Slashes in Alternate Encoding
CAPEC-80 Using UTF-8 Encoding to Bypass V alidation Logic
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
