3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-149: Improper Neutralization of Quoting Syntax (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/149.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-149: Improper Neutralization of Quoting Syntax
Weakness ID: 149
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Quotes injected into a product can be used to compromise a system. As data are parsed, an injected/absent/duplicate/malformed use
of quotes may cause the process to take unexpected actions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 138 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-0956 Database allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (application crash) via a MA TCH
AGAINST query with an opening double quote but no closing double quote.
CVE-2003-1016 MIE. MFV too? bypass AV/security with fields that should not be quoted, duplicate quotes, missing
leading/trailing quotes.
 Potential Mitigations
Developers should anticipate that quotes will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their product. Use an
appropriate combination of denylists and allowlists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the
system.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Output Encoding
While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together , sometimes it
may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most
conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict allowlist (such as everything that is
not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in
quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection ( CWE-88 ).About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:50 PM CWE - CWE-149: Improper Neutralization of Quoting Syntax (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/149.html 2/2Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1407 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Neutralization
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Quoting Element
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-468 Generic Cross-Browser Cross-Domain Theft
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
