3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1323: Improper Management of Sensitive Trace Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1323.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1323: Improper Management of Sensitive T race Data
Weakness ID: 1323
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
Trace data collected from several sources on the System-on-Chip (SoC) is stored in unprotected locations or transported to untrusted
agents.
 Extended Description
To facilitate verification of complex System-on-Chip (SoC) designs, SoC integrators add specific IP blocks that trace the SoC's internal
signals in real-time. This infrastructure enables observability of the SoC's internal behavior , validation of its functional design, and
detection of hardware and software bugs. Such tracing IP blocks collect traces from several sources on the SoC including the CPU,
crypto coprocessors, and on-chip fabrics. Traces collected from these sources are then aggregated inside trace IP block and
forwarded to trace sinks, such as debug-trace ports that facilitate debugging by external hardware and software debuggers.
Since these traces are collected from several security-sensitive sources, they must be protected against untrusted debuggers. If they
are stored in unprotected memory , an untrusted software debugger can access these traces and extract secret information.
Additionally , if security-sensitive traces are not tagged as secure, an untrusted hardware debugger might access them to extract
confidential information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1207 Debug and Test Problems
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: System on Chip (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory
An adversary can read secret values if they are captured in debug traces and stored unsafely .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In a SoC, traces generated from sources include security-sensitive IP blocks such as CPU (with tracing information such as
instructions executed and memory operands), on-chip fabric (e.g., memory-transfer signals, transaction type and destination, and on-
chip-firewall-error signals), power-management IP blocks (e.g., clock- and power-gating signals), and cryptographic coprocessors
(e.g., cryptographic keys and intermediate values of crypto operations), among other non-security-sensitive IP blocks including timersAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1323: Improper Management of Sensitive Trace Data (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1323.html 2/2and other functional blocks. The collected traces are then forwarded to the debug and trace interface used by the external hardware
debugger .
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Tag traces to indicate owner and debugging privilege level (designer , OEM, or end user) needed to access that trace.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-150 Collect Data from Common Resource Locations
CAPEC-167 White Box Reverse Engineering
CAPEC-545 Pull Data from System Resources
 References
[REF-1150] Jerry Backer , David Hely and Ramesh Karri. "Secure design-for-debug for Systems-on-Chip". 2015-10-06.
.
[REF-1151] Jerry Backer , David Hely and Ramesh Karri. "Secure and Flexible Trace-Based Debugging of Systems-on-Chip".
2016-12. < https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2994601 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-07-20
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Hareesh Khattri, Parbati K. Manna, and Arun Kanuparthi Intel Corporation
 Modifications
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
The traces do not have any privilege level attached to them. All collected traces can be viewed by any debugger (i.e., SoC designer, OEM
debugger, or end user).
(good code) Example Language: Other 
Some of the traces are SoC-design-house secrets, while some are OEM secrets. Few are end-user secrets and the rest are not security-
sensitive. Tag all traces with the appropriate, privilege level at the source. The bits indicating the privilege level must be immutable in their
transit from trace source to the final, trace sink. Debugger privilege level must be checked before providing access to traces.