3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/307.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts
Weakness ID: 307
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not implement suf ficient measures to prevent multiple failed authentication attempts within a short time frame,
making it more susceptible to brute force attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 799 Improper Control of Interaction Frequency
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1211 Authentication Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
An attacker could perform an arbitrary number of authentication attempts using dif ferent passwords,
and eventually gain access to the targeted account.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In January 2009, an attacker was able to gain administrator access to a Twitter server because the server did not restrict the number
of login attempts [ REF-236 ]. The attacker targeted a member of Twitter's support team and was able to successfully guess the
member's password using a brute force attack by guessing a large number of common words. After gaining access as the member of
the support staf f, the attacker used the administrator panel to gain access to 33 accounts that belonged to celebrities and politicians.
Ultimately , fake Twitter messages were sent that appeared to come from the compromised accounts.
Example 1 References:
[REF-236] Kim Zetter. "Weak Password Brings 'Happiness' to Twitter Hacker". 2009-01-09. . URL validated: 2023-04-07.
Example 2
The following code, extracted from a servlet's doPost() method, performs an authentication lookup every time the servlet is invoked.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
String username = request.getParameter("username");
String password = request.getParameter("password");3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/307.html 2/5However , the software makes no attempt to restrict excessive authentication attempts.
Example 3
This code attempts to limit the number of login attempts by causing the process to sleep before completing the authentication.
However , there is no limit on parallel connections, so this does not increase the amount of time an attacker needs to complete an
attack.
Example 4
In the following C/C++ example the validateUser method opens a socket connection, reads a username and password from the
socket and attempts to authenticate the username and password.
The validateUser method will continuously check for a valid username and password without any restriction on the number of
authentication attempts made. The method should limit the number of authentication attempts made to prevent brute force attacks as
in the following example code.
Example 5
Consider this example from a real-world attack against the iPhone [ REF-1218 ]. An attacker can use brute force methods; each time
there is a failed guess, the attacker quickly cuts the power before the failed entry is recorded, ef fectively bypassing the intended limit
on the number of failed authentication attempts. Note that this attack requires removal of the cell phone battery and connecting
directly to the phone's power source, and the brute force attack is still time-consuming.
 Observed Examplesint authResult = authenticateUser(username, password);
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$username = $\_POST['username'];
$password = $\_POST['password'];
sleep(2000);
$isAuthenticated = authenticateUser($username, $password);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int validateUser(char \*host, int port)
{
int socket = openSocketConnection(host, port);
if (socket < 0) {
printf("Unable to open socket connection");
return(FAIL);
}
int isValidUser = 0;
char username[USERNAME\_SIZE];
char password[PASSWORD\_SIZE];
while (isValidUser == 0) {
if (getNextMessage(socket, username, USERNAME\_SIZE) > 0) {
if (getNextMessage(socket, password, PASSWORD\_SIZE) > 0) {
isValidUser = AuthenticateUser(username, password);
}
}
}
return(SUCCESS);
}
(good code) Example Language: C 
int validateUser(char \*host, int port)
{
...
int count = 0;
while ((isValidUser == 0) && (count < MAX\_ATTEMPTS)) {
if (getNextMessage(socket, username, USERNAME\_SIZE) > 0) {
if (getNextMessage(socket, password, PASSWORD\_SIZE) > 0) {
isValidUser = AuthenticateUser(username, password);
}
}
count++;
}
if (isValidUser) {
return(SUCCESS);
}
else {
return(FAIL);
}
}3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/307.html 3/5Reference Description
CVE-2019-0039 the REST API for a network OS has a high limit for number of connections, allowing brute force
password guessing
CVE-1999-1152 Product does not disconnect or timeout after multiple failed logins.
CVE-2001-1291 Product does not disconnect or timeout after multiple failed logins.
CVE-2001-0395 Product does not disconnect or timeout after multiple failed logins.
CVE-2001-1339 Product does not disconnect or timeout after multiple failed logins.
CVE-2002-0628 Product does not disconnect or timeout after multiple failed logins.
CVE-1999-1324 User accounts not disabled when they exceed a threshold; possibly a resultant problem.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Common protection mechanisms include:
Disconnecting the user after a small number of failed attempts
Implementing a timeout
Locking out a targeted account
Requiring a computational task on the user's part.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
Consider using libraries with authentication capabilities such as OpenSSL or the ESAPI Authenticator . [REF-45 ]
 Detection Methods
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host-based V ulnerability Scanners - Examine configuration for flaws, verifying that audit mechanisms work, ensure
host configuration meets certain predefined criteria
Effectiveness: High
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Forced Path Execution
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: High
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Source code W eakness Analyzer
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/307.html 4/5Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Configuration Checker
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 724 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 808 2010 Top 25 - W eaknesses On the Cusp
MemberOf 812 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A3 - Broken Authentication and Session Management
MemberOf 866 2011 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 955 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unrestricted Authentication
MemberOf 1353 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A07:2021 - Identification and Authentication Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER AUTHENT .MUL TFAIL Multiple Failed Authentication Attempts not Prevented
Software Fault Patterns SFP34 Unrestricted authentication
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-16 Dictionary-based Password Attack
CAPEC-49 Password Brute Forcing
CAPEC-560 Use of Known Domain Credentials
CAPEC-565 Password Spraying
CAPEC-600 Credential Stuf fing
CAPEC-652 Use of Known Kerberos Credentials
CAPEC-653 Use of Known Operating System Credentials
 References
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-236] Kim Zetter . "Weak Password Brings 'Happiness' to Twitter Hacker". 2009-01-09.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1218] Graham Cluley . "This Black Box Can Brute Force Crack iPhone PIN Passcodes". The Mac Security Blog. 2015-03-16.
.
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-307: Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/307.html 5/5
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names