3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-335: Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/335.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-335: Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
Weakness ID: 335
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) but does not correctly manage seeds.
 Extended Description
PRNGs are deterministic and, while their output appears random, they cannot actually create entropy . They rely on cryptographically
secure and unique seeds for entropy so proper seeding is critical to the secure operation of the PRNG.
Management of seeds could be broken down into two main areas:
(1) protecting seeds as cryptographic material (such as a cryptographic key);
(2) whenever possible, using a uniquely generated seed from a cryptographically secure source
PRNGs require a seed as input to generate a stream of numbers that are functionally indistinguishable from random numbers. While
the output is, in many cases, suf ficient for cryptographic uses, the output of any PRNG is directly determined by the seed provided as
input. If the seed can be ascertained by a third party , the entire output of the PRNG can be made known to them. As such, the seed
should be kept secret and should ideally not be able to be guessed. For example, the current time may be a poor seed. Knowing the
approximate time the PRNG was seeded greatly reduces the possible key space.
Seeds do not necessarily need to be unique, but reusing seeds may open up attacks if the seed is discovered.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
ParentOf 336 Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
ParentOf 337 Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)
ParentOf 339 Small Seed Space in PRNG
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
If a PRNG is used incorrectly , such as using the same seed for each initialization or using a
predictable seed, then an attacker may be able to easily guess the seed and thus the random
numbers. This could lead to unauthorized access to a system if the seed is used for authentication
and authorization.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-335: Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/335.html 2/3The following code uses a statistical PRNG to generate account IDs.
Because the program uses the same seed value for every invocation of the PRNG, its values are predictable, making the system
vulnerable to attack.
Example 2
Both of these examples use a statistical PRNG seeded with the current value of the system clock to generate a random number:
An attacker can easily predict the seed used by these PRNGs, and so also predict the stream of random numbers generated. Note
these examples also exhibit CWE-338 (Use of Cryptographically W eak PRNG).
Example 3
This code grabs some random bytes and uses them for a seed in a PRNG, in order to generate a new cryptographic key .
Since only 2 bytes are used as a seed, an attacker will only need to guess 2^16 (65,536) values before being able to replicate the
state of the PRNG.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-7010 Cloud application on Kubernetes generates passwords using a weak random number generator based
on deployment time.
CVE-2019-11495 server uses erlang:now() to seed the PRNG, which results in a small search space for potential random
seeds
CVE-2018-12520 Product's PRNG is not seeded for the generation of session IDs
CVE-2016-10180 Router's PIN generation is based on rand(time(0)) seeding.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private static final long SEED = 1234567890;
public int generateAccountID() {
Random random = new Random(SEED);
return random.nextInt();
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
Random random = new Random(System.currentTimeMillis());
int accountID = random.nextInt();
(bad code) Example Language: C 
srand(time());
int randNum = rand();
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
# getting 2 bytes of randomness for the seeding the PRNG
seed = os.urandom(2)
random.seed(a=seed)
key = random.getrandbits(128)3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-335: Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/335.html 3/3Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER PRNG Seed Error
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names