3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-757: Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation ('Algorithm Downgrade') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/757.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-757: Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation ('Algorithm
Downgrade')
Weakness ID: 757
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A protocol or its implementation supports interaction between multiple actors and allows those actors to negotiate which algorithm
should be used as a protection mechanism such as encryption or authentication, but it does not select the strongest algorithm that is
available to both parties.
 Extended Description
When a security mechanism can be forced to downgrade to use a less secure algorithm, this can make it easier for attackers to
compromise the product by exploiting weaker algorithm. The victim might not be aware that the less secure algorithm is being used.
For example, if an attacker can force a communications channel to use cleartext instead of strongly-encrypted data, then the attacker
could read the channel by snif fing, instead of going through extra ef fort of trying to decrypt the data using brute force techniques.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
PeerOf 1328 Security V ersion Number Mutable to Older V ersions
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2006-4302 Attacker can select an older version of the software to exploit its vulnerabilities.
CVE-2006-4407 Improper prioritization of encryption ciphers during negotiation leads to use of a weaker cipher .
CVE-2005-2969 chain: SSL/TLS implementation disables a verification step ( CWE-325 ) that enables a downgrade
attack to a weaker protocol.
CVE-2001-1444 Telnet protocol implementation allows downgrade to weaker authentication and encryption using an
Adversary-in-the-Middle AITM attack.
CVE-2002-1646 SSH server implementation allows override of configuration setting to use weaker authentication
schemes. This may be a composite with CWE-642 .
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 957 SFP Secondary Cluster: Protocol ErrorAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:09 PM CWE - CWE-757: Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation ('Algorithm Downgrade') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/757.html 2/2MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is related to CWE-300 , although not all downgrade attacks necessarily require an entity that redirects or interferes with the
network. See examples.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-220 Client-Server Protocol Manipulation
CAPEC-606 Weakening of Cellular Encryption
CAPEC-620 Drop Encryption Level
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-03-03
(CWE 1.3, 2009-03-10)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications
