3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-449: The UI Performs the Wrong Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/449.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-449: The UI Performs the W rong Action
Weakness ID: 449
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The UI performs the wrong action with respect to the user's request.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 446 UI Discrepancy for Security Feature
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 355 User Interface Security Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation; Varies by Context
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2001-1387 Network firewall accidentally implements one command line option as if it were another , possibly
leading to behavioral infoleak.
CVE-2001-0081 Command line option correctly suppresses a user prompt but does not properly disable a feature,
although when the product prompts the user , the feature is properly disabled.
CVE-2002-1977 Product does not "time out" according to user specification, leaving sensitive data available after it has
expired.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: T esting
Perform extensive functionality testing of the UI. The UI should behave as specified.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 995 SFP Secondary Cluster: Feature
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:00 PM CWE - CWE-449: The UI Performs the Wrong Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/449.html 2/2This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER The UI performs the wrong action
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications