3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-843: Access of Resource Using Incompatible Type ('Type Confusion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/843.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-843: Access of Resource Using Incompatible T ype ('T ype Confusion')
Weakness ID: 843
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product allocates or initializes a resource such as a pointer , object, or variable using one type, but it later accesses that resource
using a type that is incompatible with the original type.
 Extended Description
When the product accesses the resource using an incompatible type, this could trigger logical errors because the resource does not
have expected properties. In languages without memory safety , such as C and C++, type confusion can lead to out-of-bounds
memory access.
While this weakness is frequently associated with unions when parsing data with many dif ferent embedded object types in C, it can be
present in any application that can interpret the same variable or memory location in multiple ways.
This weakness is not unique to C and C++. For example, errors in PHP applications can be triggered by providing array parameters
when scalars are expected, or vice versa. Languages such as Perl, which perform automatic conversion of a variable of one type
when it is accessed as if it were another type, can also contain these issues.
 Alternate T erms
Object T ype Confusion
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 704 Incorrect Type Conversion or Cast
PeerOf 1287 Improper V alidation of Specified Type of Input
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 136 Type Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Availability
Integrity
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Modify Memory; Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
When a memory buf fer is accessed using the wrong type, it could read or write memory out of the
bounds of the buf fer, if the allocated buf fer is smaller than the type that the code is attempting to
access, leading to a crash and possibly code execution.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code uses a union to support the representation of dif ferent types of messages. It formats messages dif ferently ,
depending on their type.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-843: Access of Resource Using Incompatible Type ('Type Confusion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/843.html 2/4The code intends to process the message as a NAME\_TYPE, and sets the default message to "Hello W orld." However , since both
buf.name and buf.nameID are part of the same union, they can act as aliases for the same memory location, depending on memory
layout after compilation.
As a result, modification of buf.nameID - an int - can ef fectively modify the pointer that is stored in buf.name - a string.
Execution of the program might generate output such as:
Pointer of name is 10830
Pointer of name is now 10831
Message: ello W orld
Notice how the pointer for buf.name was changed, even though buf.name was not explicitly modified.
In this case, the first "H" character of the message is omitted. However , if an attacker is able to fully control the value of buf.nameID,
then buf.name could contain an arbitrary pointer , leading to out-of-bounds reads or writes.
Example 2
The following PHP code accepts a value, adds 5, and prints the sum.
When called with the following query string:
value=123
the program calculates the sum and prints out:
SUM is 128
However , the attacker could supply a query string such as:
value[]=123
The "[]" array syntax causes $value to be treated as an array type, which then generates a fatal error when calculating $sum:
Fatal error: Unsupported operand types in program.php on line 2
Example 3
The following Perl code is intended to look up the privileges for user ID's between 0 and 3, by performing an access of the
$UserPrivilegeArray reference. It is expected that only userID 3 is an admin (since this is listed in the third element of the array).(bad code) Example Language: C 
#define NAME\_TYPE 1
#define ID\_TYPE 2
struct MessageBuffer
{
int msgType;
union {
char \*name;
int nameID;
};
};
int main (int argc, char \*\*argv) {
struct MessageBuffer buf;
char \*defaultMessage = "Hello World";
buf.msgType = NAME\_TYPE;
buf.name = defaultMessage;
printf("Pointer of buf.name is %p\n", buf.name);
/\* This particular value for nameID is used to make the code architecture-independent. If coming from untrusted input, it could be any
value. \*/
buf.nameID = (int)(defaultMessage + 1);
printf("Pointer of buf.name is now %p\n", buf.name);
if (buf.msgType == NAME\_TYPE) {
printf("Message: %s\n", buf.name);
}
else {
printf("Message: Use ID %d\n", buf.nameID);
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$value = $\_GET['value'];
$sum = $value + 5;
echo "value parameter is '$value'";
echo "SUM is $sum";
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
my $UserPrivilegeArray = ["user", "user", "admin", "user"];
my $userID = get\_current\_user\_ID();3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-843: Access of Resource Using Incompatible Type ('Type Confusion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/843.html 3/4In this case, the programmer intended to use "$UserPrivilegeArray->{$userID}" to access the proper position in the array . But because
the subscript was omitted, the "user" string was compared to the scalar representation of the $UserPrivilegeArray reference, which
might be of the form "ARRA Y(0x229e8)" or similar .
Since the logic also "fails open" ( CWE-636 ), the result of this bug is that all users are assigned administrator privileges.
While this is a forced example, it demonstrates how type confusion can have security consequences, even in memory-safe
languages.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2010-4577 Type confusion in CSS sequence leads to out-of-bounds read.
CVE-2011-0611 Size inconsistency allows code execution, first discovered when it was actively exploited in-the-wild.
CVE-2010-0258 Improperly-parsed file containing records of dif ferent types leads to code execution when a memory
location is interpreted as a dif ferent object than intended.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Applicable Platform
This weakness is possible in any type-unsafe programming language.
Research Gap
Type confusion weaknesses have received some attention by applied researchers and major software vendors for C and C++ code.
Some publicly-reported vulnerabilities probably have type confusion as a root-cause weakness, but these may be described as
"memory corruption" instead.
For other languages, there are very few public reports of type confusion weaknesses. These are probably under-studied. Since
many programs rely directly or indirectly on loose typing, a potential "type confusion" behavior might be intentional, possibly
requiring more manual analysis.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding EXP39-C Exact Do not access a variable through a pointer of an incompatible type
 References
[REF-811] Mark Dowd, Ryan Smith and David Dewey . "Attacking Interoperability". "T ype Confusion V ulnerabilities," page 59.
2009. < http://hustlelabs.com/stuf f/bh2009\_dowd\_smith\_dewey .pdf>. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 7, "T ype
Confusion", Page 319. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2011-05-15
(CWE 1.13, 2011-06-01)CWE Content Team MITRE
if ($UserPrivilegeArray eq "user") {
print "Regular user!\n";
}
else {
print "Admin!\n";
}
print "\$UserPrivilegeArray = $UserPrivilegeArray\n";3/7/24, 3:11 PM CWE - CWE-843: Access of Resource Using Incompatible Type ('Type Confusion') (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/843.html 4/4
 Submissions
 Modifications

