3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1389: Incorrect Parsing of Numbers with Diﬀerent Radices (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1389.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1389: Incorrect Parsing of Numbers with Different Radices
Weakness ID: 1389
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product parses numeric input assuming base 10 (decimal) values, but it does not account for inputs that use a dif ferent base
number (radix).
 Extended Description
Frequently , a numeric input that begins with "0" is treated as octal, or "0x" causes it to be treated as hexadecimal, e.g. by the
inet\_addr() function. For example, "023" (octal) is 35 decimal, or "0x31" is 49 decimal. Other bases may be used as well. If the
developer assumes decimal-only inputs, the code could produce incorrect numbers when the inputs are parsed using a dif ferent base.
This can result in unexpected and/or dangerous behavior . For example, a "0127.0.0.1" IP address is parsed as octal due to the
leading "0", whose numeric value would be the same as 87.0.0.1 (decimal), where the developer likely expected to use 127.0.0.1.
The consequences vary depending on the surrounding code in which this weakness occurs, but they can include bypassing network-
based access control using unexpected IP addresses or netmasks, or causing apparently-symbolic identifiers to be processed as if
they are numbers. In web applications, this can enable bypassing of SSRF restrictions.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 704 Incorrect Type Conversion or Cast
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationInput validation used may assume decimal bases during conditional checks, when it may not always be the
case.
Implementation The application may rely on a service that supports dif ferent numerical bases.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
An attacker may use an unexpected numerical base to access private application resources.Unknown
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Alter Execution Logic
An attacker may use an unexpected numerical base to bypass or manipulate access control
mechanisms.Unknown
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The below demonstrative example uses an IP validator that splits up an IP address by octet, tests to ensure each octet can be casted
into an integer , and then returns the original IP address if no exceptions are raised. This validated IP address is then tested using the
"ping" command.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Python 3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1389: Incorrect Parsing of Numbers with Diﬀerent Radices (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1389.html 2/3If run\_ping() were to be called with one or more zero-prepended octets, validate\_ip() will succeed as zero-prepended numerical
strings can be interpreted as decimal by a cast ("012" would cast to 12). However , as the original IP with the prepended zeroes is
returned rather than the casted IP , it will be used in the call to the ping command. Ping DOES check and support octal-based IP
octets, so the IP reached via ping may be dif ferent than the IP assumed by the validator . For example, ping would considered
"0127.0.0.1" the same as "87.0.0.1".
Example 2
This code uses a regular expression to validate an IP string prior to using it in a call to the "ping" command.
Since the regular expression does not have anchors ( CWE-777 ), i.e. is unbounded without ^ or $ characters, then prepending a 0 or
0x to the beginning of the IP address will still result in a matched regex pattern. Since the ping command supports octal and hex
prepended IP addresses, it will use the unexpectedly valid IP address ( CWE-1389 ). For example, "0x63.63.63.63" would be
considered equivalent to "99.63.63.63". As a result, the attacker could potentially ping systems that the attacker cannot reach directly .
Example 3
Consider the following scenario, inspired by CWE team member Kelly Todd.
Kelly wants to set up monitoring systems for his two cats, who pose very dif ferent threats. One cat, Night, tweets embarrassing or
critical comments about his owner in ways that could cause reputational damage, so Night's blog needs to be monitored regularly . The
other cat, Taki, likes to distract Kelly and his coworkers during business meetings with cute meows, so Kelly monitors Taki's location
using a dif ferent web site.
Suppose /etc/hosts provides the site info as follows:
The entry for night.example.com has a typo "010" in the first octet. When using ping to ensure the servers are up, the leading 0
causes the IP address to be converted using octal. So when Kelly's script attempts to access night.example.com, it inadvertently
scans 8.1.0.8 instead of 10.1.0.8 (since "010" in octal is 8 in decimal), and Night is free to send new Tweets without being immediately
detected.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-29662 Chain: Use of zero-prepended IP addresses in Perl-based IP validation module can lead to an access
control bypass.
CVE-2021-28918 Chain: Use of zero-prepended IP addresses in a product that manages IP blocks can lead to an SSRF .import subprocess
def validate\_ip(ip: str):
split\_ip = ip.split('.')
if len(split\_ip) > 4 or len(split\_ip) == 0:
raise ValueError("Invalid IP length")
for octet in split\_ip:
try:
int(octet, 10)
except ValueError as e:
raise ValueError(f"Cannot convert IP octet to int - {e}")
# Returns original IP after ensuring no exceptions are raised
return ip
def run\_ping(ip: str):
validated = validate\_ip(ip)
# The ping command treats zero-prepended IP addresses as octal
result = subprocess.call(["ping", validated])
print(result)
(bad code) Example Language: Python 
import subprocess
import re
def validate\_ip\_regex(ip: str):
ip\_validator = re.compile(r"((25[0-5]|(2[0-4]|1\d|[1-9]|)\d)\.?\b){4}")
if ip\_validator.match(ip):
return ip
else:
raise ValueError("IP address does not match valid pattern.")
def run\_ping\_regex(ip: str):
validated = validate\_ip\_regex(ip)
# The ping command treats zero-prepended IP addresses as octal
result = subprocess.call(["ping", validated])
print(result)
(bad code) Example Language: Other 
taki.example.com 10.1.0.7
night.example.com 010.1.0.83/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1389: Incorrect Parsing of Numbers with Diﬀerent Radices (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1389.html 3/3CVE-2021-29921 Chain: Use of zero-prepended IP addresses in a Python standard library package can lead to an SSRF .
CVE-2021-29923 Chain: Use of zero-prepended IP addresses in the net Golang library can lead to an access control
bypass.
CVE-2021-29424 Chain: Use of zero-prepended IP addresses in Perl netmask module allows bypass of IP-based access
control.
CVE-2016-4029 Chain: incorrect validation of intended decimal-based IP address format ( CWE-1286 ) enables parsing
of octal or hexadecimal formats ( CWE-1389 ), allowing bypass of an SSRF protection mechanism
(CWE-918 ).
CVE-2020-13776 Mishandling of hex-valued usernames leads to unexpected decimal conversion and privilege escalation
in the systemd Linux suite.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Enforcement by Conversion
If only decimal-based values are expected in the application, conditional checks should be created in a way that prevent octal or
hexadecimal strings from being checked. This can be achieved by converting any numerical string to an explicit base-10 integer
prior to the conditional check, to prevent octal or hex values from ever being checked against the condition.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
If various numerical bases do need to be supported, check for leading values indicating the non-decimal base you wish to
support (such as 0x for hex) and convert the numeric strings to integers of the respective base. Reject any other alternative-
base string that is not intentionally supported by the application.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
If regular expressions are used to validate IP addresses, ensure that they are bounded using ^ and $ to prevent base-prepended
IP addresses from being matched.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1284] Sick Codes. "Universal "netmask" npm package, used by 270,000+ projects, vulnerable to octal input data". 2021-03-
28. < https://sick.codes/universal-netmask-npm-package-used-by-270000-projects-vulnerable-to-octal-input-data-server-side-
request-forgery-remote-file-inclusion-local-file-inclusion-and-more-cve-2021-28918/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-05-28
(CWE 4.9, 2022-10-13)Anonymous External Contributor
 Modifications
