3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-321: Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/321.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-321: Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key
Weakness ID: 321
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The use of a hard-coded cryptographic key significantly increases the possibility that encrypted data may be recovered.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 798 Use of Hard-coded Credentials
PeerOf 259 Use of Hard-coded Password
PeerOf 1291 Public Key Re-Use for Signing both Debug and Production Code
CanFollow 656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
If hard-coded cryptographic keys are used, it is almost certain that malicious users will gain access
through the account in question.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code examples attempt to verify a password using a hard-coded cryptographic key .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(password,"68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0);
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public boolean VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if( d l("68f404b5130735844b6f22b6636b")){3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-321: Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/321.html 2/3The cryptographic key is within a hard-coded string value that is compared to the password. It is likely that an attacker will be able to
read the key and compromise the system.
Example 2
In 2022, the OT :ICEF ALL study examined products by 10 dif ferent Operational Technology (OT) vendors. The researchers reported 56
vulnerabilities and said that the products were "insecure by design" [ REF-1283 ]. If exploited, these vulnerabilities often allowed
adversaries to change how the products operated, ranging from denial of service to changing the code that the products executed.
Since these products were often used in industries such as power , electrical, water , and others, there could even be safety
implications.
Multiple vendors used hard-coded keys for critical functionality in their OT products.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-29960 Engineering W orkstation uses hard-coded cryptographic keys that could allow for unathorized
filesystem access and privilege escalation
CVE-2022-30271 Remote Terminal Unit (R TU) uses a hard-coded SSH private key that is likely to be used by default.
CVE-2020-10884 WiFi router service has a hard-coded encryption key , allowing root access
CVE-2014-2198 Communications / collaboration product has a hardcoded SSH private key , allowing access to root
account
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Prevention schemes mirror that of hard-coded password storage.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 719 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A8 - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
MemberOf 720 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A9 - Insecure Communications
MemberOf 729 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A8 - Insecure Storage
MemberOf 950 SFP Secondary Cluster: Hardcoded Sensitive Data
MemberOf 1346 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A02:2021 - Cryptographic Failures
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
if (password.equals("68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {
System.out.println("Entering Diagnostic Mode...");
return true;
}
System.out.println("Incorrect Password!");
return false;
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (password.Equals("68af404b513073584c4b6f22b6c63e6b")) {
Console.WriteLine("Entering Diagnostic Mode...");
return(1);
}
Console.WriteLine("Incorrect Password!");
return(0);
}3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-321: Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/321.html 3/3Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Other
The main dif ference between the use of hard-coded passwords and the use of hard-coded cryptographic keys is the false sense of
security that the former conveys. Many people believe that simply hashing a hard-coded password before storage will protect the
information from malicious users. However , many hashes are reversible (or at least vulnerable to brute force attacks) -- and further ,
many authentication protocols simply request the hash itself, making it no better than a password.
Maintenance
The Taxonomy\_Mappings to ISA/IEC 62443 were added in CWE 4.10, but they are still under review and might change in future
CWE versions. These draft mappings were performed by members of the "Mapping CWE to 62443" subgroup of the CWE- CAPEC
ICS/OT Special Interest Group (SIG), and their work is incomplete as of CWE 4.10. The mappings are included to facilitate
discussion and review by the broader ICS/OT community , and they are likely to change in future CWE versions.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Use of hard-coded cryptographic key
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A8 CWE More Specific Insecure Cryptographic Storage
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A9 CWE More Specific Insecure Communications
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A8 CWE More Specific Insecure Storage
Software Fault Patterns SFP33 Hardcoded sensitive data
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.10 RE(1)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 2-4 Req SP .03.10 RE(3)
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 1.5
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 4.3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-1 Req SD-1
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req SR 4.3
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 4-2 Req CR 7.3
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-01-24
(CWE 4.10, 2023-01-31)"Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications