3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-102: Struts: Duplicate Validation Forms (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/102.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-102: Struts: Duplicate V alidation Forms
Weakness ID: 102
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses multiple validation forms with the same name, which might cause the Struts V alidator to validate a form that the
programmer does not expect.
 Extended Description
If two validation forms have the same name, the Struts V alidator arbitrarily chooses one of the forms to use for input validation and
discards the other . This decision might not correspond to the programmer's expectations, possibly leading to resultant weaknesses.
Moreover , it indicates that the validation logic is not up-to-date, and can indicate that other , more subtle validation errors are present.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 1173 Improper Use of V alidation Framework
ChildOf 694 Use of Multiple Resources with Duplicate Identifier
PeerOf 675 Multiple Operations on Resource in Single-Operation Context
 Relevant to the view "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms" (CWE-700)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
These two Struts validation forms have the same name.
It is not certain which form will be used by Struts. It is critically important that validation logic be maintained and kept in sync with the
rest of the product.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
The DTD or schema validation will not catch the duplicate occurrence of the same form name. To find the issue in the
implementation, manual checks or automated static analysis could be applied to the xml configuration files.
 Weakness OrdinalitiesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 


 ... 
 ... 

3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-102: Struts: Duplicate Validation Forms (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/102.html 2/2Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 722 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A1 - Unvalidated Input
MemberOf 990 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Command
MemberOf 1409 Comprehensive Categorization: Injection
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Struts: Duplicate V alidation Forms
Software Fault Patterns SFP24 Tainted input to command
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
