3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-787: Out-of-bounds Write (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/787.html 1/7
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-787: Out-of-bounds W rite
Weakness ID: 787
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product writes data past the end, or before the beginning, of the intended buf fer.
 Extended Description
Typically , this can result in corruption of data, a crash, or code execution. The product may modify an index or perform pointer
arithmetic that references a memory location that is outside of the boundaries of the buf fer. A subsequent write operation then
produces undefined or unexpected results.
 Alternate T erms
Memory Corruption: Often used to describe the consequences of writing to memory outside the bounds of a buf fer, or to
memory that is invalid, when the root cause is something other than a sequential copy of excessive data
from a fixed starting location. This may include issues such as incorrect pointer arithmetic, accessing
invalid pointers due to incomplete initialization or memory release, etc.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
ParentOf 121 Stack-based Buf fer Overflow
ParentOf 122 Heap-based Buf fer Overflow
ParentOf 123 Write-what-where Condition
ParentOf 124 Buffer Underwrite ('Buf fer Underflow')
CanFollow 822 Untrusted Pointer Dereference
CanFollow 823 Use of Out-of-range Pointer Of fset
CanFollow 824 Access of Uninitialized Pointer
CanFollow 825 Expired Pointer Dereference
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1218 Memory Buf fer Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
C++ (Often Prevalent)
Class: Assembly (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: Modify Memory; DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Execute Unauthorized Code or CommandsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-787: Out-of-bounds Write (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/787.html 2/7
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code attempts to save four dif ferent identification numbers into an array .
Since the array is only allocated to hold three elements, the valid indices are 0 to 2; so, the assignment to id\_sequence[3] is out of
bounds.
Example 2
In the following code, it is possible to request that memcpy move a much larger segment of memory than assumed:
If returnChunkSize() happens to encounter an error it will return -1. Notice that the return value is not checked before the memcpy
operation ( CWE-252 ), so -1 can be passed as the size argument to memcpy() ( CWE-805 ). Because memcpy() assumes that the
value is unsigned, it will be interpreted as MAXINT -1 (CWE-195 ), and therefore will copy far more memory than is likely available to
the destination buf fer (CWE-787 , CWE-788 ).
Example 3
This code takes an IP address from the user and verifies that it is well formed. It then looks up the hostname and copies it into a
buffer.
This function allocates a buf fer of 64 bytes to store the hostname. However , there is no guarantee that the hostname will not be larger
than 64 bytes. If an attacker specifies an address which resolves to a very large hostname, then the function may overwrite sensitive
data or even relinquish control flow to the attacker .
Note that this example also contains an unchecked return value ( CWE-252 ) that can lead to a NULL pointer dereference ( CWE-476 ).
Example 4
This code applies an encoding procedure to an input string and stores it into a buf fer.(bad code) Example Language: C 
int id\_sequence[3];
/\* Populate the id array. \*/
id\_sequence[0] = 123;
id\_sequence[1] = 234;
id\_sequence[2] = 345;
id\_sequence[3] = 456;
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int returnChunkSize(void \*) {
/\* if chunk info is valid, return the size of usable memory,
\* else, return -1 to indicate an error
\*/
...
}
int main() {
...
memcpy(destBuf, srcBuf, (returnChunkSize(destBuf)-1));
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
void host\_lookup(char \*user\_supplied\_addr){
struct hostent \*hp;
in\_addr\_t \*addr;
char hostname[64];
in\_addr\_t inet\_addr(const char \*cp);
/\*routine that ensures user\_supplied\_addr is in the right format for conversion \*/
validate\_addr\_form(user\_supplied\_addr);
addr = inet\_addr(user\_supplied\_addr);
hp = gethostbyaddr( addr, sizeof(struct in\_addr), AF\_INET);
strcpy(hostname, hp->h\_name);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \* copy\_input(char \*user\_supplied\_string){
itidtid3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-787: Out-of-bounds Write (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/787.html 3/7The programmer attempts to encode the ampersand character in the user-controlled string. However , the length of the string is
validated before the encoding procedure is applied. Furthermore, the programmer assumes encoding expansion will only expand a
given character by a factor of 4, while the encoding of the ampersand expands by 5. As a result, when the encoding procedure
expands the string it is possible to overflow the destination buf fer if the attacker provides a string of many ampersands.
Example 5
In the following C/C++ code, a utility function is used to trim trailing whitespace from a character string. The function copies the input
string to a local character string and uses a while statement to remove the trailing whitespace by moving backward through the string
and overwriting whitespace with a NUL character .
However , this function can cause a buf fer underwrite if the input character string contains all whitespace. On some systems the while
statement will move backwards past the beginning of a character string and will call the isspace() function on an address outside of
the bounds of the local buf fer.
Example 6
The following code allocates memory for a maximum number of widgets. It then gets a user-specified number of widgets, making sure
that the user does not request too many . It then initializes the elements of the array using InitializeWidget(). Because the number of
widgets can vary for each request, the code inserts a NULL pointer to signify the location of the last widget.int i, dst\_index;
char \*dst\_buf = (char\*)malloc(4\*sizeof(char) \* MAX\_SIZE);
if ( MAX\_SIZE <= strlen(user\_supplied\_string) ){
die("user string too long, die evil hacker!");
}
dst\_index = 0;
for ( i = 0; i < strlen(user\_supplied\_string); i++ ){
if( '&' == user\_supplied\_string[i] ){
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = '&';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'a';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'm';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = 'p';
dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = ';';
}
else if ('<' == user\_supplied\_string[i] ){
/\* encode to < \*/
}
else dst\_buf[dst\_index++] = user\_supplied\_string[i];
}
return dst\_buf;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* trimTrailingWhitespace(char \*strMessage, int length) {
char \*retMessage;
char \*message = malloc(sizeof(char)\*(length+1));
// copy input string to a temporary string
char message[length+1];
int index;
for (index = 0; index < length; index++) {
message[index] = strMessage[index];
}
message[index] = '\0';
// trim trailing whitespace
int len = index-1;
while (isspace(message[len])) {
message[len] = '\0';
len--;
}
// return string without trailing whitespace
retMessage = message;
return retMessage;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int i;
unsigned int numWidgets;
Widget \*\*WidgetList;
numWidgets = GetUntrustedSizeValue();
if ((numWidgets == 0) || (numWidgets > MAX\_NUM\_WIDGETS)) {
ExitError("Incorrect number of widgets requested!");
}
WidgetList = (Widget \*\*)malloc(numWidgets \* sizeof(Widget \*));
printf("WidgetList ptr=%p\n", WidgetList);
for(i=0; i.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Stack Overruns" Page 129. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 5, "Heap Overruns" Page 138. 2nd Edition.
Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04. < https://www .microsoftpressstore.com/store/writing-secure-code-9780735617223 >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 5: Buf fer Overruns." Page
89. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 3, "Nonexecutable
Stack", Page 76. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 5, "Protection
Mechanisms", Page 189. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-90] "Buf fer UNDERFLOWS: What do you know about it?". V uln-Dev Mailing List. 2004-01-10. < https://seclists.org/vuln-
dev/2004/Jan/22 >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-56] Microsoft. "Using the Strsafe.h Functions". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/menurc/strsafe-ovw?
redirectedfrom=MSDN >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-57] Matt Messier and John V iega. "Safe C String Library v1.0.3". < http://www .gnu-darwin.org/www001/ports-1.5a-
CURRENT/devel/safestr/work/safestr-1.0.3/doc/safestr .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-58] Michael Howard. "Address Space Layout Randomization in Windows V ista". < https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/archive/blogs/michael\_howard/address-space-layout-randomization-in-windows-vista >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-60] "PaX". < https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable\_space\_protection#PaX >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-61] Microsoft. "Understanding DEP as a mitigation technology part 1".
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-64] Grant Murphy . "Position Independent Executables (PIE)". Red Hat. 2012-11-28.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-1332] John Richard Moser . "Prelink and address space randomization". 2006-07-05. < https://lwn.net/Articles/190139/ >.
3/7/24, 3:10 PM CWE - CWE-787: Out-of-bounds Write (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/787.html 7/7URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1333] Dmitry Evtyushkin, Dmitry Ponomarev , Nael Abu-Ghazaleh. "Jump Over ASLR: Attacking Branch Predictors to
Bypass ASLR". 2016. < http://www .cs.ucr .edu/~nael/pubs/micro16.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1334] D3FEND. "Stack Frame Canary V alidation (D3-SFCV)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1335] D3FEND. "Segment Address Of fset Randomization (D3-SAOR)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1336] D3FEND. "Process Segment Execution Prevention (D3-PSEP)". 2023.
. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
[REF-1337] Alexander Sotirov and Mark Dowd. "Bypassing Browser Memory Protections: Setting back browser security by 10
years". Memory information leaks. 2008. < https://www .blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Sotirov\_Dowd/bh08-sotirov-
dowd.pdf >. URL validated: 2023-04-26 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2009-10-21
(CWE 1.6, 2009-10-29)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-04-25 "Mapping CWE to 62443" Sub-W orking Group CWE- CAPEC ICS/OT SIG
Suggested mappings to ISA/IEC 62443.
 Modifications