3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-211: Externally-Generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/211.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-211: Externally-Generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
Weakness ID: 211
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs an operation that triggers an external diagnostic or error message that is not directly generated or controlled by
the product, such as an error generated by the programming language interpreter that a software application uses. The error can
contain sensitive system information.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 209 Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
ParentOf 535 Exposure of Information Through Shell Error Message
ParentOf 536 Servlet Runtime Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
ParentOf 537 Java Runtime Error Message Containing Sensitive Information
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and DesignPHP applications are often targeted for having this issue when the PHP interpreter generates the error
outside of the application's control. However , other languages/environments exhibit the same issue.
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
Operation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following servlet code does not catch runtime exceptions, meaning that if such an exception were to occur , the container may
display potentially dangerous information (such as a full stack trace).
Example 2
In the following Java example the class InputFileRead enables an input file to be read using a FileReader object. In the constructor of
this class a default input file path is set to some directory on the local file system and the method setInputFile must be called to set the
name of the input file to be read in the default directory . The method readInputFile will create the FileReader object and will read the
contents of the file. If the method setInputFile is not called prior to calling the method readInputFile then the File object will remain null
when initializing the FileReader object. A Java RuntimeException will be raised, and an error message will be output to the user .About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
String username = request.getParameter("username");
// May cause unchecked NullPointerException.
if (username.length() < 10) {
...
}
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-211: Externally-Generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/211.html 2/3However , the error message output to the user contains information regarding the default directory on the local file system. This
information can be exploited and may lead to unauthorized access or use of the system. Any Java RuntimeExceptions that are
handled should not expose sensitive information to the user .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2004-1581 chain: product does not protect against direct request of an include file, leading to resultant path
disclosure when the include file does not successfully execute.
CVE-2004-1579 Single "'" inserted into SQL query leads to invalid SQL query execution, triggering full path disclosure.
Possibly resultant from more general SQL injection issue.
CVE-2005-0459 chain: product does not protect against direct request of a library file, leading to resultant path
disclosure when the file does not successfully execute.
CVE-2005-0443 invalid parameter triggers a failure to find an include file, leading to infoleak in error message.
CVE-2005-0433 Various invalid requests lead to information leak in verbose error messages describing the failure to
instantiate a class, open a configuration file, or execute an undefined function.
CVE-2004-1101 Improper handling of filename request with trailing "/" causes multiple consequences, including
information leak in V isual Basic error message.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: System Configuration
Configure the application's environment in a way that prevents errors from being generated. For example, in PHP , disable
display\_errors.
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
Phases: Implementation; Build and Compilation
Strategy: Environment Hardening
Debugging information should not make its way into a production release.
Phase: Implementation
Handle exceptions internally and do not display errors containing potentially sensitive information to a user . Create default error
pages if necessary .
Phase: Implementation
The best way to prevent this weakness during implementation is to avoid any bugs that could trigger the external error message.
This typically happens when the program encounters fatal errors, such as a divide-by-zero. You will not always be able to control
the use of error pages, and you might not be using a language that handles exceptions.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public class InputFileRead {
private File readFile = null;
private FileReader reader = null;
private String inputFilePath = null;
private final String DEFAULT\_FILE\_PATH = "c:\\somedirectory\\";
public InputFileRead() {
inputFilePath = DEFAULT\_FILE\_PATH;
}
public void setInputFile(String inputFile) {
/\* Assume appropriate validation / encoding is used and privileges / permissions are preserved \*/
}
public void readInputFile() {
try {
reader = new FileReader(readFile);
...
} catch (RuntimeException rex) {
System.err.println("Error: Cannot open input file in the directory " + inputFilePath);
System.err.println("Input file has not been set, call setInputFile method before calling readInputFile");
} catch (FileNotFoundException ex) {...}
}
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-211: Externally-Generated Error Message Containing Sensitive Information (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/211.html 3/3
 Functional Areas
Error Handling
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is inherently a resultant vulnerability from a weakness within the product or an interaction error .
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Product-External Error Message Infoleak
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
