3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1088: Synchronous Access of Remote Resource without Timeout (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1088.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1088: Synchronous Access of Remote Resource without T imeout
Weakness ID: 1088
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code has a synchronous call to a remote resource, but there is no timeout for the call, or the timeout is set to infinite.
 Extended Description
This issue can prevent the product from running reliably , since an outage for the remote resource can cause the product to hang. If
the relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this reliability problem might introduce a vulnerability .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 821 Incorrect Synchronization
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Reliability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-RLB-
19
 References
[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-RLB-19. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
 Content HistoryAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:43 PM CWE - CWE-1088: Synchronous Access of Remote Resource without Timeout (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1088.html 2/2
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications