3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1339: Insuﬃcient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1339.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1339: Insufficient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number
Weakness ID: 1339
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product processes a real number with an implementation in which the number's representation does not preserve required
accuracy and precision in its fractional part, causing an incorrect result.
 Extended Description
When a security decision or calculation requires highly precise, accurate numbers such as financial calculations or prices, then small
variations in the number could be exploited by an attacker .
There are multiple ways to store the fractional part of a real number in a computer . In all of these cases, there is a limit to the accuracy
of recording a fraction. If the fraction can be represented in a fixed number of digits (binary or decimal), there might not be enough
digits assigned to represent the number . In other cases the number cannot be represented in a fixed number of digits due to repeating
in decimal or binary notation (e.g. 0.333333...) or due to a transcendental number such as Π or √2. Rounding of numbers can lead to
situations where the computer results do not adequately match the result of suf ficiently accurate math.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 682 Incorrect Calculation
PeerOf 190 Integer Overflow or W raparound
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
CanPrecede 834 Excessive Iteration
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 189 Numeric Errors
 Background Details
There are three major ways to store real numbers in computers. Each method is described along with the limitations of how they store
their numbers.
Fixed: Some implementations use a fixed number of binary bits to represent both the integer and the fraction. In the
demonstrative example about Muller's Recurrence, the fraction 108.0 - ((815.0 - 1500.0 / z) / y) cannot be represented in 8
binary digits. The numeric accuracy within languages such as PL/1, COBOL and Ada is expressed in decimal digits rather
than binary digits. In SQL and most databases, the length of the integer and the fraction are specified by the programmer in
decimal. In the language C, fixed reals are implemented according to ISO/IEC TR18037
Floating: The number is stored in a version of scientific notation with a fixed length for the base and the significand. This
allows flexibility for more accuracy when the integer portion is smaller . When dealing with large integers, the fractional
accuracy is less. Languages such as PL/1, COBOL and Ada set the accuracy by decimal digit representation rather than
using binary digits. Python also implements decimal floating-point numbers using the IEEE 754-2008 encoding method.
Ratio: The number is stored as the ratio of two integers. These integers also have their limits. These integers can be stored in
a fixed number of bits or in a vector of digits. While the vector of digits method provides for very large integers, they cannot
truly represent a repeating or transcendental number as those numbers do not ever have a fixed length.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationThis weakness is introduced when the developer picks a method to represent a real number . The weakness may
only be visible with very specific numeric inputs.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1339: Insuﬃcient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1339.html 2/4Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
This weakness will generally lead to undefined results and therefore crashes. In some
implementations the program will halt if the weakness causes an overflow during a calculation.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands
The results of the math are not as expected. This could cause issues where a value would not be
properly calculated and provide an incorrect answer .
Confidentiality
Availability
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Modify Application Data
This weakness can sometimes trigger buf fer overflows which can be used to execute arbitrary code.
This is usually outside the scope of a product's implicit security policy .
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Muller's Recurrence is a series that is supposed to converge to the number 5. When running this series with the following code,
different implementations of real numbers fail at specific iterations:
The chart below shows values for dif ferent data structures in the rust language when Muller's recurrence is executed to 80 iterations.
The data structure f64 is a 64 bit float. The data structures IF are fixed representations 128 bits in length that use
the first number as the size of the integer and the second size as the size of the fraction (e.g. I16F112 uses 16 bits for the integer and
112 bits for the fraction). The data structure of Ratio comes in three dif ferent implementations: i32 uses a ratio of 32 bit signed
integers, i64 uses a ratio of 64 bit signed integers and BigInt uses a ratio of signed integer with up to 2^32 digits of base 256. Notice
how even with 112 bits of fractions or ratios of 64bit unsigned integers, this math still does not converge to an expected value of 5.
(bad code) Example Language: Rust 
fn rec\_float(y: f64, z: f64) -> f64
{
108.0 - ((815.0 - 1500.0 / z) / y);
}
fn float\_calc(turns: usize) -> f64
{
let mut x: Vec = vec![4.0, 4.25];
(2..turns + 1).for\_each(|number|
{
x.push(rec\_float(x[number - 1], x[number - 2]));
});
x[turns]
}
(good code) Example Language: Rust 
Use num\_rational::BigRational;
fn rec\_big(y: BigRational, z: BigRational) -> BigRational
{
BiRtilf it (BiItf(108))3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1339: Insuﬃcient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1339.html 3/4Example 2
On February 25, 1991, during the eve of the Iraqi invasion of Saudi Arabia, a Scud missile fired from Iraqi positions hit a US Army
barracks in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. It miscalculated time and killed 28 people [ REF-1190 ].
Example 2 References:
[REF-1190] "An Improvement To Floating Point Numbers". 2015-10-22. .
Example 3
Sleipner A, an of fshore drilling platform in the North Sea, was incorrectly constructed with an underestimate of 50% of strength in a
critical cluster of buoyancy cells needed for construction. This led to a leak in buoyancy cells during lowering, causing a seismic event
of 3.0 on the Richter Scale and about $700M loss [ REF-1281 ].
Example 3 References:
[REF-1281] Douglas N. Arnold. "The sinking of the Sleipner A offshore platform". .
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2018-16069 Chain: series of floating-point precision errors ( CWE-1339 ) in a web browser rendering engine causes
out-of-bounds read ( CWE-125 ), giving access to cross-origin data
CVE-2017-7619 Chain: rounding error in floating-point calculations ( CWE-1339 ) in image processor leads to infinite
loop ( CWE-835 )
CVE-2021-29529 Chain: machine-learning product can have a heap-based buf fer overflow ( CWE-122 ) when some
integer-oriented bounds are calculated by using ceiling() and floor() on floating point values ( CWE-
1339 )
CVE-2008-2108 Chain: insuf ficient precision ( CWE-1339 ) in random-number generator causes some zero bits to be
reliably generated, reducing the amount of entropy ( CWE-331 )
CVE-2006-6499 Chain: web browser crashes due to infinite loop - "bad looping logic [that relies on] floating point math
[CWE-1339 ] to exit the loop [ CWE-835 ]"
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Implementation; Patching and Maintenance
The developer or maintainer can move to a more accurate representation of real numbers. In extreme cases, the programmer
can move to representations such as ratios of BigInts which can represent real numbers to extremely fine precision. The
programmer can also use the concept of an Unum real. The memory and CPU tradeof fs of this change must be examined.
Since floating point reals are used in many products and many locations, they are implemented in hardware and most format
changes will cause the calculations to be moved into software resulting in slower products.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
BigRational::from\_integer(BigInt::from(108))
- ((BigRational::from\_integer(BigInt::from(815))
- BigRational::from\_integer(BigInt::from(1500)) / z)
/ y)
}
fn big\_calc(turns: usize) -> BigRational
{
let mut x: Vec = vec![BigRational::from\_float(4.0).unwrap(), BigRational::from\_float(4.25).unwrap(),];
(2..turns + 1).for\_each(|number|
{
x.push(rec\_big(x[number - 1].clone(), x[number - 2].clone()));
});
x[turns].clone()
}3/7/24, 2:49 PM CWE - CWE-1339: Insuﬃcient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1339.html 4/4Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 References
[REF-1186] "Is COBOL holding you hostage with Math?". 2018-07-28. < https://medium.com/the-technical-archaeologist/is-cobol-
holding-you-hostage-with-math-5498c0eb428b >.
[REF-1187] "Intermediate results and arithmetic precision". 2021-06-30. < https://www .ibm.com/docs/en/cobol-zos/6.2?
topic=appendixes-intermediate-results-arithmetic-precision >.
[REF-1188] "8.1.2. Arbitrary Precision Numbers". 2021-06-24. < https://www .postgresql.org/docs/8.3/datatype-
numeric.html#DA TATYPE-NUMERIC-DECIMAL >.
[REF-1189] "Muller's Recurrence". 2017-11-11. < https://scipython.com/blog/mullers-recurrence/ >.
[REF-1190] "An Improvement To Floating Point Numbers". 2015-10-22. < https://hackaday .com/2015/10/22/an-improvement-to-
floating-point-numbers/ >.
[REF-1191] "HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING: ARE WE JUST GETTING WRONG ANSWERS F ASTER?". 1999-06-23.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2021-07-08
(CWE 4.5, 2021-07-20)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications