3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1077: Floating Point Comparison with Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1077.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1077: Floating Point Comparison with Incorrect Operator
Weakness ID: 1077
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code performs a comparison such as an equality test between two float (floating point) values, but it uses comparison operators
that do not account for the possibility of loss of precision.
 Extended Description
Numeric calculation using floating point values can generate imprecise results because of rounding errors. As a result, two dif ferent
calculations might generate numbers that are mathematically equal, but have slightly dif ferent bit representations that do not translate
to the same mathematically-equal values. As a result, an equality test or other comparison might produce unexpected results.
This issue can prevent the product from running reliably . If the relevant code is reachable by an attacker , then this reliability problem
might introduce a vulnerability .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 697 Incorrect Comparison
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Reliability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1129 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Reliability
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1397 Comprehensive Categorization: Comparison
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCRM ASCRM-RLB-
9
 ReferencesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:42 PM CWE - CWE-1077: Floating Point Comparison with Incorrect Operator (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1077.html 2/2[REF-961] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Reliability Measure (ASCRM)". ASCRM-RLB-9. 2016-
01. < http://www .omg.org/spec/ASCRM/1.0/ >.
[REF-975] Bruce Dawson. "Comparing Floating Point Numbers, 2012 Edition". 2012-02-25.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications