3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-682: Incorrect Calculation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/682.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-682: Incorrect Calculation
Weakness ID: 682
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product performs a calculation that generates incorrect or unintended results that are later used in security-critical decisions or
resource management.
 Extended Description
When product performs a security-critical calculation incorrectly , it might lead to incorrect resource allocations, incorrect privilege
assignments, or failed comparisons among other things. Many of the direct results of an incorrect calculation can lead to even larger
problems such as failed protection mechanisms or even arbitrary code execution.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1000 Research Concepts
ParentOf 128 Wrap-around Error
ParentOf 131 Incorrect Calculation of Buf fer Size
ParentOf 135 Incorrect Calculation of Multi-Byte String Length
ParentOf 190 Integer Overflow or W raparound
ParentOf 191 Integer Underflow (W rap or W raparound)
ParentOf 193 Off-by-one Error
ParentOf 369 Divide By Zero
ParentOf 468 Incorrect Pointer Scaling
ParentOf 469 Use of Pointer Subtraction to Determine Size
ParentOf 1335 Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer
ParentOf 1339 Insuf ficient Precision or Accuracy of a Real Number
CanFollow 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
CanFollow 839 Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check
CanPrecede 170 Improper Null Termination
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
If the incorrect calculation causes the program to move into an unexpected state, it may lead to a
crash or impairment of service.
Integrity
Confidentiality
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; DoS: Resource Consumption (Other); Execute Unauthorized Code or
Commands
If the incorrect calculation is used in the context of resource allocation, it could lead to an out-of-
bounds operation ( CWE-119 ) leading to a crash or even arbitrary code execution. Alternatively , itAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Pillar
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-682: Incorrect Calculation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/682.html 2/4may result in an integer overflow ( CWE-190 ) and / or a resource consumption problem ( CWE-400 ).
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
In the context of privilege or permissions assignment, an incorrect calculation can provide an
attacker with access to sensitive resources.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
If the incorrect calculation leads to an insuf ficient comparison ( CWE-697 ), it may compromise a
protection mechanism such as a validation routine and allow an attacker to bypass the security-
critical code.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following image processing code allocates a table for images.
This code intends to allocate a table of size num\_imgs, however as num\_imgs grows large, the calculation determining the size of the
list will eventually overflow ( CWE-190 ). This will result in a very small list to be allocated instead. If the subsequent code operates on
the list as if it were num\_imgs long, it may result in many types of out-of-bounds problems ( CWE-119 ).
Example 2
This code attempts to calculate a football team's average number of yards gained per touchdown.
The code does not consider the event that the team they are querying has not scored a touchdown, but has gained yardage. In that
case, we should expect an ArithmeticException to be thrown by the JVM. This could lead to a loss of availability if our error handling
code is not set up correctly .
Example 3
This example attempts to calculate the position of the second byte of a pointer .
In this example, second\_char is intended to point to the second byte of p. But, adding 1 to p actually adds sizeof(int) to p, giving a
result that is incorrect (3 bytes of f on 32-bit platforms). If the resulting memory address is read, this could potentially be an information
leak. If it is a write, it could be a security-critical write to unauthorized memory-- whether or not it is a buf fer overflow . Note that the
above code may also be wrong in other ways, particularly in a little endian environment.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2020-0022 chain: mobile phone Bluetooth implementation does not include of fset when calculating packet length
(CWE-682 ), leading to out-of-bounds write ( CWE-787 )
CVE-2004-1363 substitution overflow: buf fer overflow using environment variables that are expanded after the length
check is performed
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Understand your programming language's underlying representation and how it interacts with numeric calculation. Pay close
attention to byte size discrepancies, precision, signed/unsigned distinctions, truncation, conversion and casting between types,
"not-a-number" calculations, and how your language handles numbers that are too large or too small for its underlying
representation.
Phase: Implementation(bad code) Example Language: C 
img\_t table\_ptr; /\*struct containing img data, 10kB each\*/
int num\_imgs;
...
num\_imgs = get\_num\_imgs();
table\_ptr = (img\_t\*)malloc(sizeof(img\_t)\*num\_imgs);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
int touchdowns = team.getTouchdowns();
int yardsGained = team.getTotalYardage();
System.out.println(team.getName() + " averages " + yardsGained / touchdowns + "yards gained for every touchdown scored");
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int \*p = x;
char \* second\_char = (char \*)(p + 1);3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-682: Incorrect Calculation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/682.html 3/4Strategy: Input V alidation
Perform input validation on any numeric input by ensuring that it is within the expected range. Enforce that the input meets both
the minimum and maximum requirements for the expected range.
Phase: Implementation
Use the appropriate type for the desired action. For example, in C/C++, only use unsigned types for values that could never be
negative, such as height, width, or other numbers related to quantity .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Language Selection
Use languages, libraries, or frameworks that make it easier to handle numbers without unexpected consequences.
Examples include safe integer handling packages such as SafeInt (C++) or IntegerLib (C or C++).
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use languages, libraries, or frameworks that make it easier to handle numbers without unexpected consequences.
Examples include safe integer handling packages such as SafeInt (C++) or IntegerLib (C or C++).
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Compilation or Build Hardening
Examine compiler warnings closely and eliminate problems with potential security implications, such as signed / unsigned
mismatch in memory operations, or use of uninitialized variables. Even if the weakness is rarely exploitable, a single failure may
lead to the compromise of the entire system.
Phase: T esting
Use automated static analysis tools that target this type of weakness. Many modern techniques use data flow analysis to
minimize the number of false positives. This is not a perfect solution, since 100% accuracy and coverage are not feasible.
Phase: T esting
Use dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the product using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz
testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The product's operation may slow down, but it should not become
unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.
 Detection Methods
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of allocation calculations. This can be useful for
detecting overflow conditions ( CWE-190 ) or similar weaknesses that might have serious security impacts on the program.
Effectiveness: High
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 738 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 5 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 739 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 6 - Floating Point (FLP)
MemberOf 752 2009 Top 25 - Risky Resource Management
MemberOf 872 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 04 - Integers (INT)
MemberOf 873 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 05 - Floating Point Arithmetic (FLP)
MemberOf 977 SFP Secondary Cluster: Design
MemberOf 1003 Weaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities
MemberOf 1137 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 03. Numeric Types and
Operations (NUM)
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1159 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 05. Floating Point (FLP)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1308 CISQ Quality Measures - Security
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1408 Comprehensive Categorization: Incorrect Calculation
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
3/7/24, 3:07 PM CWE - CWE-682: Incorrect Calculation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/682.html 4/4This CWE entry is extremely high-level, a Pillar . In many cases, lower-level children or descendants are more appropriate.
However , sometimes this weakness is forced to be used due to the lack of in-depth weakness research. See Research Gaps.
Comments:
Where feasible, consider children or descendants of this entry instead.
 Notes
Research Gap
Weaknesses related to this Pillar appear to be under-studied, especially with respect to classification schemes. Input from academic
and other communities could help identify and resolve gaps or organizational dif ficulties within CWE.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding FLP32-C CWE More
AbstractPrevent or detect domain and range errors in math functions
CER T C Secure Coding INT07-C Use only explicitly signed or unsigned char type for numeric
values
CER T C Secure Coding INT13-C Use bitwise operators only on unsigned operands
CER T C Secure Coding INT33-C CWE More
AbstractEnsure that division and remainder operations do not result in
divide-by-zero errors
CER T C Secure Coding INT34-C CWE More
AbstractDo not shift an expression by a negative number of bits or by
greater than or equal to the number of bits that exist in the
operand
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-128 Integer Attacks
CAPEC-129 Pointer Manipulation
 References
[REF-106] David LeBlanc and Niels Dekker . "SafeInt". < http://safeint.codeplex.com/ >.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 7: Integer Overflows."
Page 119. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "Signed Integer
Boundaries", Page 220. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2008-04-11
(CWE Draft 9, 2008-04-11)CWE Content Team MITRE
 Modifications