3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1318: Missing Support for Security Features in On-chip Fabrics or Buses (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1318.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1318: Missing Support for Security Features in On-chip Fabrics or Buses
Weakness ID: 1318
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
On-chip fabrics or buses either do not support or are not configured to support privilege separation or other security features, such as
access control.
 Extended Description
Certain on-chip fabrics and buses, especially simple and low-power buses, do not support security features. Apart from data transfer
and addressing ports, some fabrics and buses do not have any interfaces to transfer privilege, immutable identity , or any other
security attribute coming from the bus master . Similarly , they do not have dedicated signals to transport security-sensitive data from
slave to master , such as completions for certain types of transactions. Few other on-chip fabrics and buses support security features
and define specific interfaces/signals for transporting security attributes from master to slave or vice-versa. However , including these
signals is not mandatory and could be left unconfigured when generating the register-transfer-level (R TL) description for the fabric.
Such fabrics or buses should not be used to transport any security attribute coming from the bus master . In general, peripherals with
security assets should not be connected to such buses before the transaction from the bus master reaches the bus, unless some form
of access control is performed at a fabric bridge or another intermediate module.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 693 Protection Mechanism Failure
 Relevant to the view "Hardware Design" (CWE-1194)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1198 Privilege Separation and Access Control Issues
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Operating Systems
Class: Not OS-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Architectures
Class: Not Architecture-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Processor Hardware (Undetermined Prevalence)
Class: Not Technology-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Confidentiality
Integrity
Access Control
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart; Read Memory; Modify MemoryMedium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Several systems on chips (SoCs) use the Advanced-Microcontroller Bus Architecture (AMBA) Advanced-Peripheral Bus (APB)
protocol. APB is a simple, low-power bus and uses the PPROT[2:0] bits to indicate the security state of the bus masters ;PPROT[0]About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1318: Missing Support for Security Features in On-chip Fabrics or Buses (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1318.html 2/3indicates privilege, PPROT[1] indicates secure/non-secure transaction, and PPROT[2] indicates instruction/data. Assume that there is
no fabric bridge in the SoC. One of the slaves, the power-management unit, contains registers that store the thermal-shutdown limits.
The APB bus is used to connect several bus masters, each with a unique and immutable hardware identity , to several slaves. For a
CPU supporting 8 potential identities (each with varying privilege levels), 16 types of outgoing transactions can be made--8 read
transactions with each supported privilege level and 8 write transactions with each supported privilege level.
Since APB PPROT can only support up to 8 transaction types, access-control checks cannot be performed on transactions going to
the slaves at the right granularity for all possible transaction types. Thus, potentially , user code running on the CPU could maliciously
corrupt the thermal-shutdown-configuration registers to burn the device, resulting in permanent denial of service.
In this scenario, only peripherals that need access protection from 8 of the 16 possible transaction types can be connected to the APB
bus. Peripherals that require protection from the remaining 8 transaction types can be connected to a dif ferent APB bus. Alternatively ,
a bridge could be implemented to handle such complex scenarios before forwarding traf fic to the APB bus.
Example 2
The Open-Core-Protocol (OCP) fabric supports two configurable, width-optional signals for transporting security attributes: MReqInfo
and SRespInfo. MReqInfo is used to transport security attributes from bus master to slave, and SRespInfo is used to transport
security attributes from slave to bus master . An SoC uses OCP to connect several bus masters, each with a unique and immutable
hardware identity , to several slaves. One of the bus masters, the CPU, reports the privilege level (user or super user) in addition to the
unique identity . One of the slaves, the power-management unit, contains registers that store the thermal-shutdown limits.
Since MReqInfo and SRespInfo are not mandatory , these signals are not configured when autogenerating R TL for the OCP fabric.
Thus, the fabric cannot be used to transport security attributes from bus masters to slave.
Code running at user-privilege level on the CPU could maliciously corrupt the thermal-shutdown-configuration registers to burn the
device and cause permanent denial of service.
To address this, configure the fabric to include MReqInfo and SRespInfo signals and use these to transport security identity and
privilege level to perform access-control checks at the slave interface.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
If fabric does not support security features, implement security checks in a bridge or any component that is between the master
and the fabric. Alternatively , connect all fabric slaves that do not have any security assets under one such fabric and connect
peripherals with security assets to a dif ferent fabric that supports security features.
 Detection Methods
Architecture or Design Review
Review the fabric specification and ensure that it contains signals to transfer security-sensitive signals.
Effectiveness: High
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
Lack of security features can also be confirmed through manual R TL review of the fabric R TL.
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1413 Comprehensive Categorization: Protection Mechanism Failure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-180 Exploiting Incorrectly Configured Access Control Security Levels
 References
[REF-1139] ARM. "AMBA APB Protocol Specification, V ersion 2.0". 2010.
.
[REF-1140] OCP-IP . "Open Core Protocol Specification, Release 2.2". 2006.
.
3/7/24, 2:48 PM CWE - CWE-1318: Missing Support for Security Features in On-chip Fabrics or Buses (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1318.html 3/3
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2020-05-20
(CWE 4.3, 2020-12-10)Arun Kanuparthi, Hareesh Khattri, Parbati Kumar Manna Intel Corporation
 Modifications