3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-334: Small Space of Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/334.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-334: Small Space of Random V alues
Weakness ID: 334
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The number of possible random values is smaller than needed by the product, making it more susceptible to brute force attacks.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 330 Use of Insuf ficiently Random V alues
ParentOf 6 J2EE Misconfiguration: Insuf ficient Session-ID Length
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1213 Random Number Issues
MemberOf 310 Cryptographic Issues
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access Control
OtherTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism; Other
An attacker could easily guess the values used. This could lead to unauthorized access to a system
if the seed is used for authentication and authorization.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following XML example code is a deployment descriptor for a Java web application deployed on a Sun Java Application Server .
This deployment descriptor includes a session configuration property for configuring the session ID length.
This deployment descriptor has set the session ID length for this Java web application to 8 bytes (or 64 bits). The session ID length
for Java web applications should be set to 16 bytes (128 bits) to prevent attackers from guessing and/or stealing a session ID and
taking over a user's session.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: XML 

...



The number of bytes in this web module's session ID.



...
3/7/24, 2:56 PM CWE - CWE-334: Small Space of Random Values (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/334.html 2/2Note for most application servers including the Sun Java Application Server the session ID length is by default set to 128 bits and
should not be changed. And for many application servers the session ID length cannot be changed from this default setting. Check
your application server documentation for the session ID length default setting and configuration options to ensure that the session ID
length is set to 128 bits.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2002-0583 Product uses 5 alphanumeric characters for filenames of expense claim reports, stored under web root.
CVE-2002-0903 Product uses small number of random numbers for a code to approve an action, and also uses
predictable new user IDs, allowing attackers to hijack new accounts.
CVE-2003-1230 SYN cookies implementation only uses 32-bit keys, making it easier to brute force ISN.
CVE-2004-0230 Complex predictability / randomness (reduced space).
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use products or modules that conform to FIPS 140-2 [ REF-267 ] to avoid obvious entropy problems. Consult FIPS 140-2 Annex
C ("Approved Random Number Generators").
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 905 SFP Primary Cluster: Predictability
MemberOf 1414 Comprehensive Categorization: Randomness
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Maintenance
As of CWE 4.5, terminology related to randomness, entropy , and predictability can vary widely . Within the developer and other
communities, "randomness" is used heavily . However , within cryptography , "entropy" is distinct, typically implied as a measurement.
There are no commonly-used definitions, even within standards documents and cryptography papers. Future versions of CWE will
attempt to define these terms and, if necessary , distinguish between them in ways that are appropriate for dif ferent communities but
do not reduce the usability of CWE for mapping, understanding, or other scenarios.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Small Space of Random V alues
 References
[REF-267] Information Technology Laboratory , National Institute of Standards and Technology . "SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR CR YPTOGRAPHIC MODULES". 2001-05-25.
. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 20: W eak Random
Numbers." Page 299. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
