3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-615: Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/615.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-615: Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments
Weakness ID: 615
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
While adding general comments is very useful, some programmers tend to leave important data, such as: filenames related to the
web application, old links or links which were not meant to be browsed by users, old code fragments, etc.
 Extended Description
An attacker who finds these comments can map the application's structure and files, expose hidden parts of the site, and study the
fragments of code to reverse engineer the application, which may help develop further attacks against the site.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 540 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code
PeerOf 546 Suspicious Comment
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following comment, embedded in a JSP , will be displayed in the resulting HTML output.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-6197 Version numbers and internal hostnames leaked in HTML comments.
CVE-2007-4072 CMS places full pathname of server in HTML comment.
CVE-2009-2431 blog software leaks real username in HTML comment.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Distribution
Remove comments which have sensitive information about the design/implementation of the application. Some of the comments
may be exposed to the user and af fect the security posture of the application.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: HighAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: JSP 
3/7/24, 3:05 PM CWE - CWE-615: Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/615.html 2/2
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2007-05-07
(CWE Draft 6, 2007-05-07)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
