3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-497: Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/497.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-497: Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control
Sphere
Weakness ID: 497
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly prevent sensitive system-level information from being accessed by unauthorized actors who do not
have the same level of access to the underlying system as the product does.
 Extended Description
Network-based products, such as web applications, often run on top of an operating system or similar environment. When the product
communicates with outside parties, details about the underlying system are expected to remain hidden, such as path names for data
files, other OS users, installed packages, the application environment, etc. This system information may be provided by the product
itself, or buried within diagnostic or debugging messages. Debugging information helps an adversary learn about the system and form
an attack plan.
An information exposure occurs when system data or debugging information leaves the program through an output stream or logging
function that makes it accessible to unauthorized parties. Using other weaknesses, an attacker could cause errors to occur; the
response to these errors can reveal detailed system information, along with other impacts. An attacker can use messages that reveal
technologies, operating systems, and product versions to tune the attack against known vulnerabilities in these technologies. A
product may use diagnostic methods that provide significant implementation details such as stack traces as part of its error handling
mechanism.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
ParentOf 214 Invocation of Process Using V isible Sensitive Information
ParentOf 548 Exposure of Information Through Directory Listing
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 199 Information Management Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code prints the path environment variable to the standard error stream:About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* path = getenv("PATH");
...
sprintf(stderr, "cannot find exe on path %s\n", path);3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-497: Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/497.html 2/3Example 2
This code prints all of the running processes belonging to the current user .
If invoked by an unauthorized web user , it is providing a web page of potentially sensitive information on the underlying system, such
as command-line arguments ( CWE-497 ). This program is also potentially vulnerable to a P ATH based attack ( CWE-426 ), as an
attacker may be able to create malicious versions of the ps or grep commands. While the program does not explicitly raise privileges
to run the system commands, the PHP interpreter may by default be running with higher privileges than users.
Example 3
The following code prints an exception to the standard error stream:
Depending upon the system configuration, this information can be dumped to a console, written to a log file, or exposed to a remote
user. In some cases the error message tells the attacker precisely what sort of an attack the system will be vulnerable to. For
example, a database error message can reveal that the application is vulnerable to a SQL injection attack. Other error messages can
reveal more oblique clues about the system. In the example above, the search path could imply information about the type of
operating system, the applications installed on the system, and the amount of care that the administrators have put into configuring
the program.
Example 4
The following code constructs a database connection string, uses it to create a new connection to the database, and prints it to the
console.
Depending on the system configuration, this information can be dumped to a console, written to a log file, or exposed to a remote
user. In some cases the error message tells the attacker precisely what sort of an attack the system is vulnerable to. For example, a
database error message can reveal that the application is vulnerable to a SQL injection attack. Other error messages can reveal more
oblique clues about the system. In the example above, the search path could imply information about the type of operating system,
the applications installed on the system, and the amount of care that the administrators have put into configuring the program.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2021-32638 Code analysis product passes access tokens as a command-line parameter or through an environment
variable, making them visible to other processes via the ps command.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Implementation
Production applications should never use methods that generate internal details such as stack traces and error messages
unless that information is directly committed to a log that is not viewable by the end user . All error message text should be HTML
entity encoded before being written to the log file to protect against potential cross-site scripting attacks against the viewer of the
logs
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
//assume getCurrentUser() returns a username that is guaranteed to be alphanumeric (avoiding CWE-78)
$userName = getCurrentUser();
$command = 'ps aux | grep ' . $userName;
system($command);
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
try {
...
} catch (Exception e) {
e.printStackTrace();
}
(bad code) 
try {
...
} catch (Exception e) {
Console.Writeline(e);
}
(bad code) Example Language: C# 
string cs="database=northwind; server=mySQLServer...";
SqlConnection conn=new SqlConnection(cs);
...
Console.Writeline(cs);3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-497: Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/497.html 3/3Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 485 7PK - Encapsulation
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 880 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 12 - Exceptions and Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 963 SFP Secondary Cluster: Exposed Data
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1417 Comprehensive Categorization: Sensitive Information Exposure
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms System Information Leak
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)ERR01-J Do not allow exceptions to expose sensitive information
Software Fault Patterns SFP23 Exposed Data
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-170 Web Application Fingerprinting
CAPEC-694 System Location Discovery
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
