3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-473: PHP External Variable Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/473.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-473: PHP External V ariable Modification
Weakness ID: 473
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
A PHP application does not properly protect against the modification of variables from external sources, such as query parameters or
cookies. This can expose the application to numerous weaknesses that would not exist otherwise.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 471 Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID)
PeerOf 616 Incomplete Identification of Uploaded File V ariables (PHP)
CanPrecede 98 Improper Control of Filename for Include/Require Statement in PHP Program ('PHP Remote
File Inclusion')
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
PHP (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2000-0860 File upload allows arbitrary file read by setting hidden form variables to match internal variable names.
CVE-2001-0854 Mistakenly trusts $PHP\_SELF variable to determine if include script was called by its parent.
CVE-2002-0764 PHP remote file inclusion by modified assumed-immutable variable.
CVE-2001-1025 Modify key variable when calling scripts that don't load a library that initializes it.
CVE-2003-0754 Authentication bypass by modifying array used for authentication.
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Requirements; Implementation
Carefully identify which variables can be controlled or influenced by an external user , and consider adopting a naming
convention to emphasize when externally modifiable variables are being used. An application should be reluctant to trust
variables that have been initialized outside of its trust boundary . Ensure adequate checking is performed when relying on input
from outside a trust boundary . Do not allow your application to run with register\_globals enabled. If you implement a
register\_globals emulator , be extremely careful of variable extraction, dynamic evaluation, and similar issues, since weaknesses
in your emulation could allow external variable modification to take place even without register\_globals.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 991 SFP Secondary Cluster: Tainted Input to Environment
MemberOf 1415 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Control
 Vulnerability Mapping NotesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-473: PHP External Variable Modiﬁcation (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/473.html 2/2Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
This is a language-specific instance of Modification of Assumed-Immutable Data (MAID). This can be resultant from direct request
(alternate path) issues. It can be primary to weaknesses such as PHP file inclusion, SQL injection, XSS, authentication bypass, and
others.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER PHP External V ariable Modification
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-77 Manipulating User-Controlled V ariables
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications