3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition Without Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/390.html 1/5
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition W ithout Action
Weakness ID: 390
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product detects a specific error , but takes no actions to handle the error .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 755 Improper Handling of Exceptional Conditions
PeerOf 600 Uncaught Exception in Servlet
CanPrecede 401 Missing Release of Memory after Ef fective Lifetime
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 389 Error Conditions, Return V alues, Status Codes
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Varies by Context; Unexpected State; Alter Execution Logic
An attacker could utilize an ignored error condition to place the system in an unexpected state that could
lead to the execution of unintended logic and could cause other unintended behavior .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example attempts to allocate memory for a character . After the call to malloc, an if statement is used to check whether
the malloc function failed.
The conditional successfully detects a NULL return value from malloc indicating a failure, however it does not do anything to handle
the problem. Unhandled errors may have unexpected results and may cause the program to crash or terminate.
Instead, the if block should contain statements that either attempt to fix the problem or notify the user that an error has occurred and
continue processing or perform some cleanup and gracefully terminate the program. The following example notifies the user that the
malloc function did not allocate the required memory resources and returns an error code.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
foo=malloc(sizeof(char)); //the next line checks to see if malloc failed
if (foo==NULL) {
//We do nothing so we just ignore the error.
}
(good code) Example Language: C 3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition Without Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/390.html 2/5Example 2
In the following C++ example the method readFile() will read the file whose name is provided in the input parameter and will return the
contents of the file in char string. The method calls open() and read() may result in errors if the file does not exist or does not contain
any data to read. These errors will be thrown when the is\_open() method and good() method indicate errors opening or reading the
file. However , these errors are not handled within the catch statement. Catch statements that do not perform any processing will have
unexpected results. In this case an empty char string will be returned, and the file will not be properly closed.
The catch statement should contain statements that either attempt to fix the problem or notify the user that an error has occurred and
continue processing or perform some cleanup and gracefully terminate the program. The following C++ example contains two catch
statements. The first of these will catch a specific error thrown within the try block, and the second catch statement will catch all other
errors from within the catch block. Both catch statements will notify the user that an error has occurred, close the file, and rethrow to
the block that called the readFile() method for further handling or possible termination of the program.foo=malloc(sizeof(char)); //the next line checks to see if malloc failed
if (foo==NULL) {
printf("Malloc failed to allocate memory resources");
return -1;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C++ 
char\* readfile (char \*filename) {
try {
// open input file
ifstream infile;
infile.open(filename);
if (!infile.is\_open()) {
throw "Unable to open file " + filename;
}
// get length of file
infile.seekg (0, ios::end);
int length = infile.tellg();
infile.seekg (0, ios::beg);
// allocate memory
char \*buffer = new char [length];
// read data from file
infile.read (buffer,length);
if (!infile.good()) {
throw "Unable to read from file " + filename;
}
infile.close();
return buffer;
}
catch (...) {
/\* bug: insert code to handle this later \*/
}
}
(good code) Example Language: C++ 
char\* readFile (char \*filename) {
try {
// open input file
ifstream infile;
infile.open(filename);
if (!infile.is\_open()) {
throw "Unable to open file " + filename;
}
// get length of file
infile.seekg (0, ios::end);
int length = infile.tellg();
infile.seekg (0, ios::beg);
// allocate memory
char \*buffer = new char [length];
// read data from file
infile.read (buffer,length);
if (!infile.good()) {
throw "Unable to read from file " + filename;
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition Without Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/390.html 3/5Example 3
In the following Java example the method readFile will read the file whose name is provided in the input parameter and will return the
contents of the file in a String object. The constructor of the FileReader object and the read method call may throw exceptions and
therefore must be within a try/catch block. While the catch statement in this example will catch thrown exceptions in order for the
method to compile, no processing is performed to handle the thrown exceptions. Catch statements that do not perform any
processing will have unexpected results. In this case, this will result in the return of a null String.
The catch statement should contain statements that either attempt to fix the problem, notify the user that an exception has been
raised and continue processing, or perform some cleanup and gracefully terminate the program. The following Java example contains
three catch statements. The first of these will catch the FileNotFoundException that may be thrown by the FileReader constructor
called within the try/catch block. The second catch statement will catch the IOException that may be thrown by the read method called
within the try/catch block. The third catch statement will catch all other exceptions thrown within the try block. For all catch statements
the user is notified that the exception has been thrown and the exception is rethrown to the block that called the readFile() method for
further processing or possible termination of the program. Note that with Java it is usually good practice to use the getMessage()
method of the exception class to provide more information to the user about the exception raised.}
infile.close();
return buffer;
}
catch (char \*str) {
printf("Error: %s \n", str);
infile.close();
throw str;
}
catch (...) {
printf("Error occurred trying to read from file \n");
infile.close();
throw;
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public String readFile(String filename) {
String retString = null;
try {
// initialize File and FileReader objects
File file = new File(filename);
FileReader fr = new FileReader(file);
// initialize character buffer
long fLen = file.length();
char[] cBuf = new char[(int) fLen];
// read data from file
int iRead = fr.read(cBuf, 0, (int) fLen);
// close file
fr.close();
retString = new String(cBuf);
} catch (Exception ex) {
/\* do nothing, but catch so it'll compile... \*/
}
return retString;
}
(good code) Example Language: Java 
public String readFile(String filename) throws FileNotFoundException, IOException, Exception {
String retString = null;
try {
// initialize File and FileReader objects
File file = new File(filename);
FileReader fr = new FileReader(file);
// initialize character buffer
long fLen = file.length();
char [] cBuf = new char[(int) fLen];
// read data from file
int iRead = fr.read(cBuf, 0, (int) fLen);
// close file
fr.close();
retString = new String(cBuf);
} catch (FileNotFoundException ex) {
St itl("E FilNtF dE ti ithitfil"+fil )3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition Without Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/390.html 4/5
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-21820 A GPU data center manager detects an error due to a malformed request but does not act on it,
leading to memory corruption.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Properly handle each exception. This is the recommended solution. Ensure that all exceptions are handled in such a way that
you can be sure of the state of your system at any given moment.
Phase: Implementation
If a function returns an error , it is important to either fix the problem and try again, alert the user that an error has happened and
let the program continue, or alert the user and close and cleanup the program.
Phase: T esting
Subject the product to extensive testing to discover some of the possible instances of where/how errors or return values are not
handled. Consider testing techniques such as ad hoc, equivalence partitioning, robustness and fault tolerance, mutation, and
fuzzing.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 728 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A7 - Improper Error Handling
MemberOf 851 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 8 - Exceptional Behavior
(ERR)
MemberOf 880 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 12 - Exceptions and Error Handling (ERR)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 962 SFP Secondary Cluster: Unchecked Status Condition
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1405 Comprehensive Categorization: Improper Check or Handling of Exceptional Conditions
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Improper error handling
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for JavaERR00-J Do not suppress or ignore checked exceptions
System.err.println ("Error: FileNotFoundException opening the input file: " + filename );
System.err.println ("" + ex.getMessage() );
throw new FileNotFoundException(ex.getMessage());
} catch (IOException ex) {
System.err.println("Error: IOException reading the input file.\n" + ex.getMessage() );
throw new IOException(ex);
} catch (Exception ex) {
System.err.println("Error: Exception reading the input file.\n" + ex.getMessage() );
throw new Exception(ex);
}
return retString;
}3/7/24, 2:58 PM CWE - CWE-390: Detection of Error Condition Without Action (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/390.html 5/5(2011)
Software Fault Patterns SFP4 Unchecked Status Condition
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 11: Failure to Handle
Errors Correctly ." Page 183. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names