3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-178: Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/178.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-178: Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity
Weakness ID: 178
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not properly account for dif ferences in case sensitivity when accessing or determining the properties of a resource,
leading to inconsistent results.
 Extended Description
Improperly handled case sensitive data can lead to several possible consequences, including:
case-insensitive passwords reducing the size of the key space, making brute force attacks easier
bypassing filters or access controls using alternate names
multiple interpretation errors using alternate names.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 706 Use of Incorrectly-Resolved Name or Reference
PeerOf 1289 Improper V alidation of Unsafe Equivalence in Input
CanPrecede 289 Authentication Bypass by Alternate Name
CanPrecede 433 Unparsed Raw W eb Content Delivery
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 19 Data Processing Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Bypass Protection Mechanism
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In the following example, an XSS neutralization method intends to replace script tags in user-supplied input with a safe equivalent:
The code only works when the "script" tag is in all lower-case, forming an incomplete denylist ( CWE-184 ). Equivalent tags such as
"SCRIPT" or "ScRiPt" will not be neutralized by this method, allowing an XSS attack.
 Observed Examples
Reference DescriptionAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
public String preventXSS(String input, String mask) {
return input.replaceAll("script", mask);
}3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-178: Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/178.html 2/3CVE-2000-0499 Application server allows attackers to bypass execution of a jsp page and read the source code using
an upper case JSP extension in the request.
CVE-2000-0497 The server is case sensitive, so filetype handlers treat .jsp and .JSP as dif ferent extensions. JSP
source code may be read because .JSP defaults to the filetype "text".
CVE-2000-0498 The server is case sensitive, so filetype handlers treat .jsp and .JSP as dif ferent extensions. JSP
source code may be read because .JSP defaults to the filetype "text".
CVE-2001-0766 A URL that contains some characters whose case is not matched by the server's filters may bypass
access restrictions because the case-insensitive file system will then handle the request after it
bypasses the case sensitive filter .
CVE-2001-0795 Server allows remote attackers to obtain source code of CGI scripts via URLs that contain MS-DOS
conventions such as (1) upper case letters or (2) 8.3 file names.
CVE-2001-1238 Task Manager does not allow local users to end processes with uppercase letters named (1)
winlogon.exe, (2) csrss.exe, (3) smss.exe and (4) services.exe via the Process tab which could allow
local users to install Trojan horses that cannot be stopped.
CVE-2003-0411 chain: Code was ported from a case-sensitive Unix platform to a case-insensitive Windows platform
where filetype handlers treat .jsp and .JSP as dif ferent extensions. JSP source code may be read
because .JSP defaults to the filetype "text".
CVE-2002-0485 Leads to interpretation error
CVE-1999-0239 Directories may be listed because lower case web requests are not properly handled by the server .
CVE-2005-0269 File extension check in forum software only verifies extensions that contain all lowercase letters, which
allows remote attackers to upload arbitrary files via file extensions that include uppercase letters.
CVE-2004-1083 Web server restricts access to files in a case sensitive manner , but the filesystem accesses files in a
case insensitive manner , which allows remote attackers to read privileged files using alternate
capitalization.
CVE-2002-2119 Case insensitive passwords lead to search space reduction.
CVE-2004-2214 HTTP server allows bypass of access restrictions using URIs with mixed case.
CVE-2004-2154 Mixed upper/lowercase allows bypass of ACLs.
CVE-2005-4509 Bypass malicious script detection by using tokens that aren't case sensitive.
CVE-2002-1820 Mixed case problem allows "admin" to have "Admin" rights (alternate name property).
CVE-2007-3365 Chain: uppercase file extensions causes web server to return script source code instead of executing
the script.
CVE-2021-39155 Chain: A microservice integration and management platform compares the hostname in the HTTP Host
header in a case-sensitive way ( CWE-178 , CWE-1289 ), allowing bypass of the authorization policy
(CWE-863 ) using a hostname with mixed case or other variations.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Input V alidation
Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Assume all input is malicious. Use an "accept known good" input validation strategy , i.e., use a list of acceptable inputs that
strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something
that does.
When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of
acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an
example of business rule logic, "boat" may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not
valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as "red" or "blue."
Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs. This is likely to miss at least one undesirable input,
especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However ,
denylists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected
outright.
Phase: Implementation
Strategy: Input V alidation
Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated ( CWE-
180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice ( CWE-174 ). Such errors could be used to bypass
allowlist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.
 Functional Areas
File Processing
 Affected Resources
File or Directory
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
3/7/24, 2:51 PM CWE - CWE-178: Improper Handling of Case Sensitivity (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/178.html 3/3MemberOf 992 SFP Secondary Cluster: Faulty Input Transformation
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Research Gap
These are probably under-studied in Windows and Mac environments, where file names are case-insensitive and thus are subject to
equivalence manipulations involving case.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Case Sensitivity (lowercase, uppercase, mixed case)
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
