3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-367: Time-of-check Time-of-use (TOCTOU) Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/367.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-367: T ime-of-check T ime-of-use (T OCT OU) Race Condition
Weakness ID: 367
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product checks the state of a resource before using that resource, but the resource's state can change between the check and
the use in a way that invalidates the results of the check. This can cause the product to perform invalid actions when the resource is in
an unexpected state.
 Extended Description
This weakness can be security-relevant when an attacker can influence the state of the resource between check and use. This can
happen with shared resources such as files, memory , or even variables in multithreaded programs.
 Alternate T erms
TOCTT OU: The TOCTT OU acronym expands to "T ime Of Check To Time Of Use".
TOCCT OU: The TOCCT OU acronym is most likely a typo of TOCTT OU, but it has been used in some influential documents, so
the typo is repeated fairly frequently .
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
ParentOf 363 Race Condition Enabling Link Following
PeerOf 386 Symbolic Name not Mapping to Correct Object
CanFollow 609 Double-Checked Locking
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic; Unexpected State
The attacker can gain access to otherwise unauthorized resources.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Files or Directories; Modify Memory; Other
Race conditions such as this kind may be employed to gain read or write access to resources
which are not normally readable or writable by the user in question.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
The resource in question, or other resources (through the corrupted one), may be changed in
undesirable ways by a malicious user .
Non-Repudiation Technical Impact: Hide ActivitiesAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-367: Time-of-check Time-of-use (TOCTOU) Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/367.html 2/4If a file or other resource is written in this method, as opposed to in a valid way , logging of the
activity may not occur .
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
In some cases it may be possible to delete files a malicious user might not otherwise have access
to, such as log files.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following code checks a file, then updates its contents.
Potentially the file could have been updated between the time of the check and the lstat, especially since the printf has latency .
Example 2
The following code is from a program installed setuid root. The program performs certain file operations on behalf of non-privileged
users, and uses access checks to ensure that it does not use its root privileges to perform operations that should otherwise be
unavailable the current user . The program uses the access() system call to check if the person running the program has permission to
access the specified file before it opens the file and performs the necessary operations.
The call to access() behaves as expected, and returns 0 if the user running the program has the necessary permissions to write to the
file, and -1 otherwise. However , because both access() and fopen() operate on filenames rather than on file handles, there is no
guarantee that the file variable still refers to the same file on disk when it is passed to fopen() that it did when it was passed to
access(). If an attacker replaces file after the call to access() with a symbolic link to a dif ferent file, the program will use its root
privileges to operate on the file even if it is a file that the attacker would otherwise be unable to modify . By tricking the program into
performing an operation that would otherwise be impermissible, the attacker has gained elevated privileges. This type of vulnerability
is not limited to programs with root privileges. If the application is capable of performing any operation that the attacker would not
otherwise be allowed perform, then it is a possible target.
Example 3
This code prints the contents of a file if a user has permission.(bad code) Example Language: C 
struct stat \*sb;
...
lstat("...",sb); // it has not been updated since the last time it was read
printf("stated file\n");
if (sb->st\_mtimespec==...){
print("Now updating things\n");
updateThings();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
if(!access(file,W\_OK)) {
f = fopen(file,"w+");
operate(f);
...
}
else {
fprintf(stderr,"Unable to open file %s.\n",file);
}
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function readFile($filename){
$user = getCurrentUser();
//resolve file if its a symbolic link
if(is\_link($filename)){
$filename = readlink($filename);
}
if(fileowner($filename) == $user){
echo file\_get\_contents($realFile);
return;
}
else{
echo 'Access denied';
return false;
}
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-367: Time-of-check Time-of-use (TOCTOU) Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/367.html 3/4This code attempts to resolve symbolic links before checking the file and printing its contents. However , an attacker may be able to
change the file from a real file to a symbolic link between the calls to is\_link() and file\_get\_contents(), allowing the reading of arbitrary
files. Note that this code fails to log the attempted access ( CWE-778 ).
Example 4
This example is adapted from [ REF-18 ]. Assume that this code block is invoked from multiple threads. The switch statement will
execute dif ferent code depending on the time when MYFILE.txt was last changed.
If this code block were executed within multiple threads, and MYFILE.txt changed between the operation of one thread and another ,
then the switch could produce dif ferent, possibly unexpected results.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2015-1743 TOCT OU in sandbox process allows installation of untrusted browser add-ons by replacing a file after it
has been verified, but before it is executed
CVE-2003-0813 A multi-threaded race condition allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (crash or reboot)
by causing two threads to process the same RPC request, which causes one thread to use memory
after it has been freed.
CVE-2004-0594 PHP flaw allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code by aborting execution before the
initialization of key data structures is complete.
CVE-2008-2958 chain: time-of-check time-of-use (T OCT OU) race condition in program allows bypass of protection
mechanism that was designed to prevent symlink attacks.
CVE-2008-1570 chain: time-of-check time-of-use (T OCT OU) race condition in program allows bypass of protection
mechanism that was designed to prevent symlink attacks.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
The most basic advice for TOCT OU vulnerabilities is to not perform a check before the use. This does not resolve the underlying
issue of the execution of a function on a resource whose state and identity cannot be assured, but it does help to limit the false
sense of security given by the check.
Phase: Implementation
When the file being altered is owned by the current user and group, set the ef fective gid and uid to that of the current user and
group when executing this statement.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Limit the interleaving of operations on files from multiple processes.
Phases: Implementation; Architecture and Design
If you cannot perform operations atomically and you must share access to the resource between multiple processes or threads,
then try to limit the amount of time (CPU cycles) between the check and use of the resource. This will not fix the problem, but it
could make it more dif ficult for an attack to succeed.
Phase: Implementation
Recheck the resource after the use call to verify that the action was taken appropriately .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that some environmental locking mechanism can be used to protect resources ef fectively .
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that locking occurs before the check, as opposed to afterwards, such that the resource, as checked, is the same as it is
when in use.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a(bad code) Example Language: C 
#include 
#include 
...
struct stat sb;
stat("MYFILE.txt",&sb);
printf("file change time: %d\n",sb->st\_ctime);
switch(sb->st\_ctime % 2){
case 0: printf("Option 1\n"); break;
case 1: printf("Option 2\n"); break;
default: printf("this should be unreachable?\n"); break;
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-367: Time-of-check Time-of-use (TOCTOU) Race Condition (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/367.html 4/4model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 361 7PK - Time and State
MemberOf 743 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Chapter 10 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 877 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 09 - Input Output (FIO)
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 988 SFP Secondary Cluster: Race Condition Window
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Notes
Relationship
TOCT OU issues do not always involve symlinks, and not every symlink issue is a TOCT OU problem.
Research Gap
Non-symlink TOCT OU issues are not reported frequently , but they are likely to occur in code that attempts to be secure.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
PLOVER Time-of-check Time-of-use race condition
7 Pernicious Kingdoms File Access Race Conditions: TOCT OU
CLASP Time of check, time of use race condition
CLASP Race condition in switch
CER T C Secure Coding FIO01-C Be careful using functions that use file names for identification
Software Fault Patterns SFP20 Race Condition Window
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-27 Leveraging Race Conditions via Symbolic Links
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 5.4.6 Race condition in switch. 2005.
.
[REF-367] Dan Tsafrir , Tomer Hertz, David W agner and Dilma Da Silva. "Portably Solving File TOCTT OU Races with Hardness
Amplification". 2008-02-28. < https://www .usenix.org/legacy/events/fast08/tech/tsafrir .html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 9, "T OCT OU",
Page 527. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)PLOVER
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
