3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1048: Invokable Control Element with Large Number of Outward Calls (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1048.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-1048: Invokable Control Element with Large Number of Outward Calls
Weakness ID: 1048
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code contains callable control elements that contain an excessively large number of references to other application objects
external to the context of the callable, i.e. a Fan-Out value that is excessively large.
 Extended Description
While the interpretation of "excessively large Fan-Out value" may vary for each product or developer , CISQ recommends a default of
5 referenced objects.
This issue makes it more dif ficult to maintain the product, which indirectly af fects security by making it more dif ficult or time-consuming
to find and/or fix vulnerabilities. It also might make it easier to introduce vulnerabilities.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 710 Improper Adherence to Coding Standards
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1006 Bad Coding Practices
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Reduce Maintainability
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1130 CISQ Quality Measures (2016) - Maintainability
MemberOf 1307 CISQ Quality Measures - Maintainability
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: PROHIBITED (this CWE ID must not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Other
Rationale:
This entry is primarily a quality issue with no direct security implications.
Comments:
Look for weaknesses that are focused specifically on insecure behaviors that have more direct security implications.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OMG ASCMM ASCMM-
MNT -4About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
PROHIBITED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:41 PM CWE - CWE-1048: Invokable Control Element with Large Number of Outward Calls (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/1048.html 2/2
 References
[REF-960] Object Management Group (OMG). "Automated Source Code Maintainability Measure (ASCMM)". ASCMM-MNT -4.
2016-01. < https://www .omg.org/spec/ASCMM/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2018-07-02
(CWE 3.2, 2019-01-03)CWE Content Team MITRE
Entry derived from Common Quality Enumeration (CQE) Draft 0.9.
 Modifications