3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-522: Insuﬃciently Protected Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/522.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-522: Insufficiently Protected Credentials
Weakness ID: 522
Vulnerability Mapping: (with careful review of mapping notes)
View customized information:
 Description
The product transmits or stores authentication credentials, but it uses an insecure method that is susceptible to unauthorized
interception and/or retrieval.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 668 Exposure of Resource to W rong Sphere
ChildOf 1390 Weak Authentication
ParentOf 256 Plaintext Storage of a Password
ParentOf 257 Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format
ParentOf 260 Password in Configuration File
ParentOf 261 Weak Encoding for Password
ParentOf 523 Unprotected Transport of Credentials
ParentOf 549 Missing Password Field Masking
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design COMMISSION: This weakness refers to an incorrect design related to an architectural security tactic.
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Class: ICS/OT (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could gain access to user accounts and access sensitive data used by the user
accounts.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This code changes a user's password.
While the code confirms that the requesting user typed the same new password twice, it does not confirm that the user requesting the
password change is the same user whose password will be changed. An attacker can request a change of another user's password
and gain control of the victim's account.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
$user = $\_GET['user'];
$pass = $\_GET['pass'];
$checkpass = $\_GET['checkpass'];
if ($pass == $checkpass) {
SetUserPassword($user, $pass);
}3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-522: Insuﬃciently Protected Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/522.html 2/4Example 2
The following code reads a password from a properties file and uses the password to connect to a database.
This code will run successfully , but anyone who has access to config.properties can read the value of password. If a devious
employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system.
Example 3
The following code reads a password from the registry and uses the password to create a new network credential.
This code will run successfully , but anyone who has access to the registry key used to store the password can read the value of
password. If a devious employee has access to this information, they can use it to break into the system
Example 4
Both of these examples verify a password by comparing it to a stored compressed version.
Because a compression algorithm is used instead of a one way hashing algorithm, an attacker can recover compressed passwords
stored in the database.
Example 5
The following examples show a portion of properties and configuration files for Java and ASP.NET applications. The files include
username and password information but they are stored in cleartext.
This Java example shows a properties file with a cleartext username / password pair .
The following example shows a portion of a configuration file for an ASP.Net application. This configuration file includes username and
password information for a connection to a database but the pair is stored in cleartext.(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
Properties prop = new Properties();
prop.load(new FileInputStream("config.properties"));
String password = prop.getProperty("password");
DriverManager.getConnection(url, usr, password);
...
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
...
String password = regKey.GetValue(passKey).toString();
NetworkCredential netCred = new NetworkCredential(username,password,domain);
...
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int VerifyAdmin(char \*password) {
if (strcmp(compress(password), compressed\_password)) {
printf("Incorrect Password!\n");
return(0);
}
printf("Entering Diagnostic Mode...\n");
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
int VerifyAdmin(String password) {
if (passwd.Equals(compress(password), compressed\_password)) {
return(0);
}
//Diagnostic Mode
return(1);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
# Java Web App ResourceBundle properties file
...
webapp.ldap.username=secretUsername
webapp.ldap.password=secretPassword
...
(bad code) Example Language: ASP.NET 
...



...3/7/24, 3:02 PM CWE - CWE-522: Insuﬃciently Protected Credentials (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/522.html 4/4Usage: ALLOWED-WITH-REVIEW
(this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities in limited situations requiring careful review)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
This CWE entry is a Class and might have Base-level children that would be more appropriate
Comments:
Examine children of this entry to see if there is a better fit
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A7 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A3 CWE More Specific Broken Authentication and Session Management
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-102 Session Sidejacking
CAPEC-474 Signature Spoofing by Key Theft
CAPEC-50 Password Recovery Exploitation
CAPEC-509 Kerberoasting
CAPEC-551 Modify Existing Service
CAPEC-555 Remote Services with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-560 Use of Known Domain Credentials
CAPEC-561 Windows Admin Shares with Stolen Credentials
CAPEC-600 Credential Stuf fing
CAPEC-644 Use of Captured Hashes (Pass The Hash)
CAPEC-645 Use of Captured Tickets (Pass The Ticket)
CAPEC-652 Use of Known Kerberos Credentials
CAPEC-653 Use of Known Operating System Credentials
 References
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 19: Use of W eak
Password-Based Systems." Page 279. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-1283] Forescout V edere Labs. "OT :ICEF ALL: The legacy of "insecure by design" and its implications for certifications and
risk management". 2022-06-20. < https://www .forescout.com/resources/ot-icefall-report/ >.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)Anonymous Tool V endor (under NDA)
 Modifications