3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-474: Use of Function with Inconsistent Implementations (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/474.html 1/2
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-474: Use of Function with Inconsistent Implementations
Weakness ID: 474
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The code uses a function that has inconsistent implementations across operating systems and versions.
 Extended Description
The use of inconsistent implementations can cause changes in behavior when the code is ported or built under a dif ferent
environment than the programmer expects, which can lead to security problems in some cases.
The implementation of many functions varies by platform, and at times, even by dif ferent versions of the same platform.
Implementation dif ferences can include:
Slight dif ferences in the way parameters are interpreted leading to inconsistent results.
Some implementations of the function carry significant security risks.
The function might not be defined on all platforms.
The function might change which return codes it can provide, or change the meaning of its return codes.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 758 Reliance on Undefined, Unspecified, or Implementation-Defined Behavior
ParentOf 589 Call to Non-ubiquitous API
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1228 API / Function Errors
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Often Prevalent)
PHP (Often Prevalent)
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
OtherTechnical Impact: Quality Degradation; Varies by Context
 Potential Mitigations
Phases: Architecture and Design; Requirements
Do not accept inconsistent behavior from the API specifications when the deviant behavior increase the risk level.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Indirect(where the weakness is a quality issue that might indirectly make it easier to introduce security-relevant weaknesses or make
them more difficult to detect)
 Detection MethodsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 3:01 PM CWE - CWE-474: Use of Function with Inconsistent Implementations (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/474.html 2/2Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 398 7PK - Code Quality
MemberOf 1001 SFP Secondary Cluster: Use of an Improper API
MemberOf 1412 Comprehensive Categorization: Poor Coding Practices
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Inconsistent Implementations
Software Fault Patterns SFP3 Use of an improper API
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names
