3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-195: Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/195.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-195: Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error
Weakness ID: 195
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses a signed primitive and performs a cast to an unsigned primitive, which can produce an unexpected value if the
value of the signed primitive can not be represented using an unsigned primitive.
 Extended Description
It is dangerous to rely on implicit casts between signed and unsigned numbers because the result can take on an unexpected value
and violate assumptions made by the program.
Often, functions will return negative values to indicate a failure. When the result of a function is to be used as a size parameter , using
these negative return values can have unexpected results. For example, if negative size values are passed to the standard memory
copy or allocation functions they will be implicitly cast to a large unsigned value. This may lead to an exploitable buf fer overflow or
underflow condition.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 681 Incorrect Conversion between Numeric Types
CanFollow 839 Numeric Range Comparison Without Minimum Check
CanPrecede 119 Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buf fer
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Unexpected State
Conversion between signed and unsigned values can lead to a variety of errors, but from a security
standpoint is most commonly associated with integer overflow and buf fer overflow vulnerabilities.
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
In this example the variable amount can hold a negative value when it is returned. Because the function is declared to return an
unsigned int, amount will be implicitly converted to unsigned.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Variant
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned int readdata () {
int amount = 0;
...
if (result == ERROR)
amount = -1;
...
return amount;
}3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-195: Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/195.html 2/4If the error condition in the code above is met, then the return value of readdata() will be 4,294,967,295 on a system that uses 32-bit
integers.
Example 2
In this example, depending on the return value of accecssmainframe(), the variable amount can hold a negative value when it is
returned. Because the function is declared to return an unsigned value, amount will be implicitly cast to an unsigned number .
If the return value of accessmainframe() is -1, then the return value of readdata() will be 4,294,967,295 on a system that uses 32-bit
integers.
Example 3
The following code is intended to read an incoming packet from a socket and extract one or more headers.
The code performs a check to make sure that the packet does not contain too many headers. However , numHeaders is defined as a
signed int, so it could be negative. If the incoming packet specifies a value such as -3, then the malloc calculation will generate a
negative number (say , -300 if each header can be a maximum of 100 bytes). When this result is provided to malloc(), it is first
converted to a size\_t type. This conversion then produces a large value such as 4294966996, which may cause malloc() to fail or to
allocate an extremely large amount of memory ( CWE-195 ). With the appropriate negative numbers, an attacker could trick malloc()
into using a very small positive number , which then allocates a buf fer that is much smaller than expected, potentially leading to a
buffer overflow .
Example 4
This example processes user input comprised of a series of variable-length structures. The first 2 bytes of input dictate the size of the
structure to be processed.
The programmer has set an upper bound on the structure size: if it is larger than 512, the input will not be processed. The problem is
that len is a signed short, so the check against the maximum structure length is done with signed values, but len is converted to an
unsigned integer for the call to memcpy() and the negative bit will be extended to result in a huge value for the unsigned integer . If len
is negative, then it will appear that the structure has an appropriate size (the if branch will be taken), but the amount of memory
copied by memcpy() will be quite large, and the attacker will be able to overflow the stack with data in strm.
Example 5
In the following example, it is possible to request that memcpy move a much larger segment of memory than assumed:(bad code) Example Language: C 
unsigned int readdata () {
int amount = 0;
...
amount = accessmainframe();
...
return amount;
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
DataPacket \*packet;
int numHeaders;
PacketHeader \*headers;
sock=AcceptSocketConnection();
ReadPacket(packet, sock);
numHeaders =packet->headers;
if (numHeaders > 100) {
ExitError("too many headers!");
}
headers = malloc(numHeaders \* sizeof(PacketHeader);
ParsePacketHeaders(packet, headers);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char\* processNext(char\* strm) {
char buf[512];
short len = \*(short\*) strm;
strm += sizeof(len);
if (len <= 512) {
memcpy(buf, strm, len);
process(buf);
return strm + len;
}
else {
return -1;
}
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int returnChunkSize(void \*) {3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-195: Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/195.html 3/4If returnChunkSize() happens to encounter an error it will return -1. Notice that the return value is not checked before the memcpy
operation ( CWE-252 ), so -1 can be passed as the size argument to memcpy() ( CWE-805 ). Because memcpy() assumes that the
value is unsigned, it will be interpreted as MAXINT -1 (CWE-195 ), and therefore will copy far more memory than is likely available to
the destination buf fer (CWE-787 , CWE-788 ).
Example 6
This example shows a typical attempt to parse a string with an error resulting from a dif ference in assumptions between the caller to a
function and the function's action.
The buf fer length ends up being -1, resulting in a blown out stack. The space character after the colon is included in the function
calculation, but not in the caller's calculation. This, unfortunately , is not usually so obvious but exists in an obtuse series of
calculations.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2007-4268 Chain: integer signedness error ( CWE-195 ) passes signed comparison, leading to heap overflow
(CWE-122 )
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 998 SFP Secondary Cluster: Glitch in Computation
MemberOf 1158 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 04. Integers (INT)
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the V ariant level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
/\* if chunk info is valid, return the size of usable memory,
\* else, return -1 to indicate an error
\*/
...
}
int main() {
...
memcpy(destBuf, srcBuf, (returnChunkSize(destBuf)-1));
...
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int proc\_msg(char \*s, int msg\_len)
{
// Note space at the end of the string - assume all strings have preamble with space
int pre\_len = sizeof("preamble: ");
char buf[pre\_len - msg\_len];
... Do processing here if we get this far
}
char \*s = "preamble: message\n";
char \*sl = strchr(s, ':'); // Number of characters up to ':' (not including space)
int jnklen = sl == NULL ? 0 : sl - s; // If undefined pointer, use zero length
int ret\_val = proc\_msg ("s", jnklen); // Violate assumption of preamble length, end up with negative value, blow out stack3/7/24, 2:52 PM CWE - CWE-195: Signed to Unsigned Conversion Error (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/195.html 4/4
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CLASP Signed to unsigned conversion error
Software Fault Patterns SFP1 Glitch in computation
CER T C Secure Coding INT31-C CWE More
SpecificEnsure that integer conversions do not result in lost or
misinterpreted data
 References
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 6, "T ype
Conversions", Page 223. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications