3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-354: Improper Validation of Integrity Check Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/354.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-354: Improper V alidation of Integrity Check V alue
Weakness ID: 354
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not validate or incorrectly validates the integrity check values or "checksums" of a message. This may prevent it
from detecting if the data has been modified or corrupted in transmission.
 Extended Description
Improper validation of checksums before use results in an unnecessary risk that can easily be mitigated. The protocol specification
describes the algorithm used for calculating the checksum. It is then a simple matter of implementing the calculation and verifying that
the calculated checksum and the received checksum match. Improper verification of the calculated checksum and the received
checksum can lead to far greater consequences.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 754 Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
ChildOf 345 Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
PeerOf 353 Missing Support for Integrity Check
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1214 Data Integrity Issues
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Architecture and Design
Implementation REALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Other
Integrity checks usually use a secret key that helps authenticate the data origin. Skipping integrity
checking generally opens up the possibility that new data from an invalid source can be injected.
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Other
Data that is parsed and used may be corrupted.
Non-Repudiation
OtherTechnical Impact: Hide Activities; Other
Without a checksum check, it is impossible to determine if any changes have been made to the
data after it was sent.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-354: Improper Validation of Integrity Check Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/354.html 2/3
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Ensure that the checksums present in messages are properly checked in accordance with the protocol specification before they
are parsed and used.
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 884 CWE Cross-section
MemberOf 993 SFP Secondary Cluster: Incorrect Input Handling
MemberOf 1411 Comprehensive Categorization: Insuf ficient V erification of Data Authenticity
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
ISA/IEC 62443 Part 3-3 Req SR 3.1
CLASP Failure to check integrity check value
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-145 Checksum Spoofing
CAPEC-463 Padding Oracle Crypto Attack
CAPEC-75 Manipulating W riteable Configuration Files
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Contributions
Contribution Date Contributor Organization
2023-11-14
(CWE 4.14, 2024-02-29)participants in the CWE ICS/OT SIG 62443 Mapping Fall W orkshop
Contributed or reviewed taxonomy mappings for ISA/IEC 62443
(bad code) Example Language: C 
sd = socket(AF\_INET, SOCK\_DGRAM, 0); serv.sin\_family = AF\_INET;
serv.sin\_addr.s\_addr = htonl(INADDR\_ANY);
servr.sin\_port = htons(1008);
bind(sd, (struct sockaddr \*) & serv, sizeof(serv));
while (1) {
memset(msg, 0x0, MAX\_MSG);
clilen = sizeof(cli);
if (inet\_ntoa(cli.sin\_addr)==...) n = recvfrom(sd, msg, MAX\_MSG, 0, (struct sockaddr \*) & cli, &clilen);
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
while(true) {
DatagramPacket packet = new DatagramPacket(data,data.length,IPAddress, port);
socket.send(sendPacket);
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-354: Improper Validation of Integrity Check Value (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/354.html 3/3
 Submissions
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names