3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-908: Use of Uninitialized Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/908.html 1/4
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-908: Use of Uninitialized Resource
Weakness ID: 908
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product uses or accesses a resource that has not been initialized.
 Extended Description
When a resource has not been properly initialized, the product may behave unexpectedly . This may lead to a crash or invalid memory
access, but the consequences vary depending on the type of resource and how it is used within the product.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 665 Improper Initialization
ParentOf 457 Use of Uninitialized V ariable
CanFollow 909 Missing Initialization of Resource
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 399 Resource Management Errors
 Relevant to the view "W eaknesses for Simplified Mapping of Published V ulnerabilities" (CWE-1003)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Memory; Read Application Data
When reusing a resource such as memory or a program variable, the original contents of that
resource may not be cleared before it is sent to an untrusted party .
AvailabilityTechnical Impact: DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart
The uninitialized resource may contain values that cause program flow to change in ways that the
programmer did not intend.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
Here, a boolean initiailized field is consulted to ensure that initialization tasks are only completed once. However , the field is
mistakenly set to true during static initialization, so the initialization code is never reached.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: Java 
private boolean initialized = true;
public void someMethod() {
if (!initialized) {
// perform initialization tasks3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-908: Use of Uninitialized Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/908.html 2/4Example 2
The following code intends to limit certain operations to the administrator only .
If the application is unable to extract the state information - say , due to a database timeout - then the $uid variable will not be explicitly
set by the programmer . This will cause $uid to be regarded as equivalent to "0" in the conditional, allowing the original user to perform
administrator actions. Even if the attacker cannot directly influence the state data, unexpected errors could cause incorrect privileges
to be assigned to a user just by accident.
Example 3
The following code intends to concatenate a string to a variable and print the string.
This might seem innocent enough, but str was not initialized, so it contains random memory . As a result, str[0] might not contain the
null terminator , so the copy might start at an of fset other than 0. The consequences can vary , depending on the underlying memory .
If a null terminator is found before str[8], then some bytes of random garbage will be printed before the "hello world" string. The
memory might contain sensitive information from previous uses, such as a password (which might occur as a result of CWE-14 or
CWE-244 ). In this example, it might not be a big deal, but consider what could happen if large amounts of memory are printed out
before the null terminator is found.
If a null terminator isn't found before str[8], then a buf fer overflow could occur , since strcat will first look for the null terminator , then
copy 12 bytes starting with that location. Alternately , a buf fer over-read might occur ( CWE-126 ) if a null terminator isn't found before
the end of the memory segment is reached, leading to a segmentation fault and crash.
Example 4
This example will leave test\_string in an unknown condition when i is the same value as err\_val, because test\_string is not initialized
(CWE-456 ). Depending on where this code segment appears (e.g. within a function body), test\_string might be random if it is stored
on the heap or stack. If the variable is declared in static memory , it might be zero or NULL. Compiler optimization might contribute to
the unpredictability of this address.
When the printf() is reached, test\_string might be an unexpected address, so the printf might print junk strings ( CWE-457 ).
To fix this code, there are a couple approaches to making sure that test\_string has been properly set once it reaches the printf().
One solution would be to set test\_string to an acceptable default before the conditional:
Another solution is to ensure that each branch of the conditional - including the default/else branch - could ensure that test\_string is
set:...
initialized = true;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
$username = GetCurrentUser();
$state = GetStateData($username);
if (defined($state)) {
$uid = ExtractUserID($state);
}
# do stuff
if ($uid == 0) {
DoAdminThings();
}
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char str[20];
strcat(str, "hello world");
printf("%s", str);
(bad code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);
(good code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string = "Done at the beginning";
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-908: Use of Uninitialized Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/908.html 3/4
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2019-9805 Chain: Creation of the packet client occurs before initialization is complete ( CWE-696 ) resulting in a
read from uninitialized memory ( CWE-908 ), causing memory corruption.
CVE-2008-4197 Use of uninitialized memory may allow code execution.
CVE-2008-2934 Free of an uninitialized pointer leads to crash and possible code execution.
CVE-2008-0063 Product does not clear memory contents when generating an error message, leading to information
leak.
CVE-2008-0062 Lack of initialization triggers NULL pointer dereference or double-free.
CVE-2008-0081 Uninitialized variable leads to code execution in popular desktop application.
CVE-2008-3688 Chain: Uninitialized variable leads to infinite loop.
CVE-2008-3475 Chain: Improper initialization leads to memory corruption.
CVE-2005-1036 Chain: Bypass of access restrictions due to improper authorization ( CWE-862 ) of a user results from an
improperly initialized ( CWE-909 ) I/O permission bitmap
CVE-2008-3597 Chain: game server can access player data structures before initialization has happened leading to
NULL dereference
CVE-2009-2692 Chain: uninitialized function pointers can be dereferenced allowing code execution
CVE-2009-0949 Chain: improper initialization of memory can lead to NULL dereference
CVE-2009-3620 Chain: some unprivileged ioctls do not verify that a structure has been initialized before invocation,
leading to NULL dereference
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Implementation
Explicitly initialize the resource before use. If this is performed through an API function or standard procedure, follow all required
steps.
Phase: Implementation
Pay close attention to complex conditionals that af fect initialization, since some branches might not perform the initialization.
Phase: Implementation
Avoid race conditions ( CWE-362 ) during initialization routines.
Phase: Build and Compilation
Run or compile the product with settings that generate warnings about uninitialized variables or data.
 Weakness Ordinalities
Ordinality Description
Primary(where the weakness exists independent of other weaknesses)
Resultant(where the weakness is typically related to the presence of some other weaknesses)
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 1157 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 03. Expressions (EXP)
MemberOf 1306 CISQ Quality Measures - Reliability
MemberOf 1340 CISQ Data Protection Measures
MemberOf 1416 Comprehensive Categorization: Resource Lifecycle Management
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
(good code) Example Language: C 
char \*test\_string;
if (i != err\_val)
{
test\_string = "Hello World!";
}
else {
test\_string = "Done on the other side!";
}
printf("%s", test\_string);3/7/24, 3:12 PM CWE - CWE-908: Use of Uninitialized Resource (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/908.html 4/4Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
CER T C Secure Coding EXP33-C CWE More Abstract Do not read uninitialized memory
 References
[REF-436] mercy . "Exploiting Uninitialized Data". 2006-01.
.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2012-12-21
(CWE 2.4, 2013-02-21)CWE Content Team MITRE
New weakness based on discussion on the CWE research list in December 2012.
 Modifications