3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 1/6
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-285: Improper Authorization
Weakness ID: 285
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
The product does not perform or incorrectly performs an authorization check when an actor attempts to access a resource or perform
an action.
 Extended Description
Assuming a user with a given identity , authorization is the process of determining whether that user can access a given resource,
based on the user's privileges and any permissions or other access-control specifications that apply to the resource.
When access control checks are not applied consistently - or not at all - users are able to access data or perform actions that they
should not be allowed to perform. This can lead to a wide range of problems, including information exposures, denial of service, and
arbitrary code execution.
 Alternate T erms
AuthZ: "AuthZ" is typically used as an abbreviation of "authorization" within the web application security community . It is distinct
from "AuthN" (or , sometimes, "AuthC") which is an abbreviation of "authentication." The use of "Auth" as an
abbreviation is discouraged, since it could be used for either authentication or authorization.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 284 Improper Access Control
ParentOf 552 Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties
ParentOf 732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
ParentOf 862 Missing Authorization
ParentOf 863 Incorrect Authorization
ParentOf 926 Improper Export of Android Application Components
ParentOf 927 Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication
ParentOf 1230 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Metadata
ParentOf 1256 Improper Restriction of Software Interfaces to Hardware Features
ParentOf 1297 Unprotected Confidential Information on Device is Accessible by OSA T Vendors
ParentOf 1328 Security V ersion Number Mutable to Older V ersions
 Relevant to the view "Architectural Concepts" (CWE-1008)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Background Details
An access control list (ACL) represents who/what has permissions to a given object. Dif ferent operating systems implement (ACLs) in
different ways. In UNIX, there are three types of permissions: read, write, and execute. Users are divided into three classes for file
access: owner , group owner , and all other users where each class has a separate set of rights. In Windows NT , there are four basic
types of permissions for files: "No access", "Read access", "Change access", and "Full control". Windows NT extends the concept of
three types of users in UNIX to include a list of users and groups along with their associated permissions. A user can create an object
(file) and assign specified permissions to that object.
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
ImplementationREALIZA TION: This weakness is caused during implementation of an architectural security tactic.
A developer may introduce authorization weaknesses because of a lack of understanding about the
underlying technologies. For example, a developer may assume that attackers cannot modify certain
inputs such as headers or cookies.
Architecture and DesignAuthorization weaknesses may arise when a single-user application is ported to a multi-user
environment.
Operation
 Applicable PlatformsAbout ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
DISCOURAGED
Abstraction: Class
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 2/6Languages
Class: Not Language-Specific (Undetermined Prevalence)
Technologies
Web Server (Often Prevalent)
Database Server (Often Prevalent)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
ConfidentialityTechnical Impact: Read Application Data; Read Files or Directories
An attacker could read sensitive data, either by reading the data directly from a data store that is not
properly restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to read the data.
IntegrityTechnical Impact: Modify Application Data; Modify Files or Directories
An attacker could modify sensitive data, either by writing the data directly to a data store that is not
properly restricted, or by accessing insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality to write the data.
Access ControlTechnical Impact: Gain Privileges or Assume Identity
An attacker could gain privileges by modifying or reading critical data directly , or by accessing
insuf ficiently-protected, privileged functionality .
 Likelihood Of Exploit
High
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
This function runs an arbitrary SQL query on a given database, returning the result of the query .
While this code is careful to avoid SQL Injection, the function does not confirm the user sending the query is authorized to do so. An
attacker may be able to obtain sensitive employee information from the database.
Example 2
The following program could be part of a bulletin board system that allows users to send private messages to each other . This
program intends to authenticate the user before deciding whether a private message should be displayed. Assume that
LookupMessageObject() ensures that the $id argument is numeric, constructs a filename based on that id, and reads the message
details from that file. Also assume that the program stores all private messages for all users in the same directory .
While the program properly exits if authentication fails, it does not ensure that the message is addressed to the user . As a result, an
authenticated attacker could provide any arbitrary identifier and read private messages that were intended for other users.
(bad code) Example Language: PHP 
function runEmployeeQuery($dbName, $name){
mysql\_select\_db($dbName,$globalDbHandle) or die("Could not open Database".$dbName);
//Use a prepared statement to avoid CWE-89
$preparedStatement = $globalDbHandle->prepare('SELECT \* FROM employees WHERE name = :name');
$preparedStatement->execute(array(':name' => $name));
return $preparedStatement->fetchAll();
}
/.../
$employeeRecord = runEmployeeQuery('EmployeeDB',$\_GET['EmployeeName']);
(bad code) Example Language: Perl 
sub DisplayPrivateMessage {
my($id) = @\_;
my $Message = LookupMessageObject($id);
print "From: " . encodeHTML($Message->{from}) . "  
\n";
print "Subject: " . encodeHTML($Message->{subject}) . "\n";
print "

---

\n";
print "Body: " . encodeHTML($Message->{body}) . "\n";
}
my $q = new CGI;
# For purposes of this example, assume that CWE-309 and
# CWE-523 do not apply.
if (! AuthenticateUser($q->param('username'), $q->param('password'))) {
ExitError("invalid username or password");
}
my $id = $q->param('id');
DisplayPrivateMessage($id);3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 3/6One way to avoid this problem would be to ensure that the "to" field in the message object matches the username of the authenticated
user.
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-24730 Go-based continuous deployment product does not check that a user has certain privileges to update
or create an app, allowing adversaries to read sensitive repository information
CVE-2009-3168 Web application does not restrict access to admin scripts, allowing authenticated users to reset
administrative passwords.
CVE-2009-2960 Web application does not restrict access to admin scripts, allowing authenticated users to modify
passwords of other users.
CVE-2009-3597 Web application stores database file under the web root with insuf ficient access control ( CWE-219 ),
allowing direct request.
CVE-2009-2282 Terminal server does not check authorization for guest access.
CVE-2009-3230 Database server does not use appropriate privileges for certain sensitive operations.
CVE-2009-2213 Gateway uses default "Allow" configuration for its authorization settings.
CVE-2009-0034 Chain: product does not properly interpret a configuration option for a system group, allowing users to
gain privileges.
CVE-2008-6123 Chain: SNMP product does not properly parse a configuration option for which hosts are allowed to
connect, allowing unauthorized IP addresses to connect.
CVE-2008-5027 System monitoring software allows users to bypass authorization by creating custom forms.
CVE-2008-7109 Chain: reliance on client-side security ( CWE-602 ) allows attackers to bypass authorization using a
custom client.
CVE-2008-3424 Chain: product does not properly handle wildcards in an authorization policy list, allowing unintended
access.
CVE-2009-3781 Content management system does not check access permissions for private files, allowing others to
view those files.
CVE-2008-4577 ACL-based protection mechanism treats negative access rights as if they are positive, allowing bypass
of intended restrictions.
CVE-2008-6548 Product does not check the ACL of a page accessed using an "include" directive, allowing attackers to
read unauthorized files.
CVE-2007-2925 Default ACL list for a DNS server does not set certain ACLs, allowing unauthorized DNS queries.
CVE-2006-6679 Product relies on the X-Forwarded-For HTTP header for authorization, allowing unintended access by
spoofing the header .
CVE-2005-3623 OS kernel does not check for a certain privilege before setting ACLs for files.
CVE-2005-2801 Chain: file-system code performs an incorrect comparison ( CWE-697 ), preventing default ACLs from
being properly applied.
CVE-2001-1155 Chain: product does not properly check the result of a reverse DNS lookup because of operator
precedence ( CWE-783 ), allowing bypass of DNS-based access restrictions.
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Divide the product into anonymous, normal, privileged, and administrative areas. Reduce the attack surface by carefully
mapping roles with data and functionality . Use role-based access control (RBAC) to enforce the roles at the appropriate
boundaries.
Note that this approach may not protect against horizontal authorization, i.e., it will not protect a user from attacking others with
the same role.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Ensure that you perform access control checks related to your business logic. These checks may be dif ferent than the access
control checks that you apply to more generic resources such as files, connections, processes, memory , and database records.
For example, a database may restrict access for medical records to a specific database user , but each record might only be
intended to be accessible to the patient and the patient's doctor .
Phase: Architecture and Design
Strategy: Libraries or Frameworks
Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness
easier to avoid.
For example, consider using authorization frameworks such as the JAAS Authorization Framework [ REF-233 ] and the OW ASP
ESAPI Access Control feature [ REF-45 ].
Phase: Architecture and Design
For web applications, make sure that the access control mechanism is enforced correctly at the server side on every page.
Users should not be able to access any unauthorized functionality or information by simply requesting direct access to that page.
One way to do this is to ensure that all pages containing sensitive information are not cached, and that all such pages restrict
access to requests that are accompanied by an active and authenticated session token associated with a user who has the
required permissions to access that page.
Phases: System Configuration; Installation3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 4/6Use the access control capabilities of your operating system and server environment and define your access control lists
accordingly . Use a "default deny" policy when defining these ACLs.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis is useful for detecting commonly-used idioms for authorization. A tool may be able to analyze related
configuration files, such as .htaccess in Apache web servers, or detect the usage of commonly-used authorization libraries.
Generally , automated static analysis tools have dif ficulty detecting custom authorization schemes. In addition, the software's
design may include some functionality that is accessible to any user and does not require an authorization check; an automated
technique that detects the absence of authorization may report false positives.
Effectiveness: Limited
Automated Dynamic Analysis
Automated dynamic analysis may find many or all possible interfaces that do not require authorization, but manual analysis is
required to determine if the lack of authorization violates business logic
Manual Analysis
This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing,
threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.
Specifically , manual static analysis is useful for evaluating the correctness of custom authorization mechanisms.
Effectiveness: Moderate
Note: These may be more ef fective than strictly automated techniques. This is especially the case with weaknesses that are
related to design and business rules. However , manual ef forts might not achieve desired code coverage within limited time
constraints.
Manual Static Analysis - Binary or Bytecode
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Binary / Bytecode disassembler - then use manual analysis for vulnerabilities & anomalies
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Automated Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Web Application Scanner
Web Services Scanner
Database Scanners
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Dynamic Analysis with Manual Results Interpretation
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Host Application Interface Scanner
Fuzz Tester
Framework-based Fuzzer
Forced Path Execution
Monitored V irtual Environment - run potentially malicious code in sandbox / wrapper / virtual machine, see if it does
anything suspicious
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Manual Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Focused Manual Spotcheck - Focused manual analysis of source
Manual Source Code Review (not inspections)
Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Automated Static Analysis - Source Code
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Context-configured Source Code W eakness Analyzer3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 5/6Effectiveness: SOAR Partial
Architecture or Design Review
According to SOAR, the following detection techniques may be useful:
Highly cost ef fective:
Formal Methods / Correct-By-Construction
Cost ef fective for partial coverage:
Inspection (IEEE 1028 standard) (can apply to requirements, design, source code, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 254 7PK - Security Features
MemberOf 721 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A10 - Failure to Restrict URL Access
MemberOf 723 OWASP Top Ten 2004 Category A2 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 753 2009 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 803 2010 Top 25 - Porous Defenses
MemberOf 817 OWASP Top Ten 2010 Category A8 - Failure to Restrict URL Access
MemberOf 935 OWASP Top Ten 2013 Category A7 - Missing Function Level Access Control
MemberOf 945 SFP Secondary Cluster: Insecure Resource Access
MemberOf 1031 OWASP Top Ten 2017 Category A5 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1345 OWASP Top Ten 2021 Category A01:2021 - Broken Access Control
MemberOf 1382 ICS Operations (& Maintenance): Emerging Energy Technologies
MemberOf 1396 Comprehensive Categorization: Access Control
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: DISCOURAGED (this CWE ID should not be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Abstraction
Rationale:
CWE-285 is high-level and lower-level CWEs can frequently be used instead. It is a level-1 Class (i.e., a child of a Pillar).
Comments:
Look at CWE-285 's children and consider mapping to CWEs such as CWE-862 : Missing Authorization, CWE-863 : Incorrect
Authorization, CWE-732 : Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource, or others.
Suggestions:
CWE-ID Comment
CWE-862 Missing Authorization
CWE-863 Incorrect Authorization
CWE-732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
7 Pernicious Kingdoms Missing Access Control
OWASP Top Ten 2007 A10 CWE More Specific Failure to Restrict URL Access
OWASP Top Ten 2004 A2 CWE More Specific Broken Access Control
Software Fault Patterns SFP35 Insecure resource access
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-1 Accessing Functionality Not Properly Constrained by ACLs
CAPEC-104 Cross Zone Scripting
CAPEC-127 Directory Indexing
CAPEC-13 Subverting Environment V ariable V alues
CAPEC-17 Using Malicious Files
CAPEC-39 Manipulating Opaque Client-based Data Tokens
CAPEC-402 Bypassing ATA Password Security
CAPEC-45 Buffer Overflow via Symbolic Links
CAPEC-5 Blue Boxing
CAPEC-51 Poison W eb Service Registry
3/7/24, 2:55 PM CWE - CWE-285: Improper Authorization (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/285.html 6/6CAPEC-59 Session Credential Falsification through Prediction
CAPEC-60 Reusing Session IDs (aka Session Replay)
CAPEC-647 Collect Data from Registries
CAPEC-668 Key Negotiation of Bluetooth Attack (KNOB)
CAPEC-76 Manipulating W eb Input to File System Calls
CAPEC-77 Manipulating User-Controlled V ariables
CAPEC-87 Forceful Browsing
 References
[REF-6] Katrina Tsipenyuk, Brian Chess and Gary McGraw . "Seven Pernicious Kingdoms: A Taxonomy of Software Security
Errors". NIST Workshop on Software Security Assurance Tools Techniques and Metrics. NIST . 2005-11-07.
.
[REF-229] NIST . "Role Based Access Control and Role Based Security". < https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/role-based-access-
control >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-7] Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. "W riting Secure Code". Chapter 4, "Authorization" Page 114; Chapter 6,
"Determining Appropriate Access Control" Page 171. 2nd Edition. Microsoft Press. 2002-12-04.
.
[REF-231] Frank Kim. "T op 25 Series - Rank 5 - Improper Access Control (Authorization)". SANS Software Security Institute.
2010-03-04. < https://www .sans.org/blog/top-25-series-rank-5-improper-access-control-authorization/ >. URL validated: 2023-04-
07.
[REF-45] OW ASP. "OW ASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Project". < http://www .owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI >.
[REF-233] Rahul Bhattacharjee. "Authentication using JAAS". < https://javaranch.com/journal/2008/04/authentication-using-
JAAS.html >. URL validated: 2023-04-07 .
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 2, "Common
Vulnerabilities of Authorization", Page 39. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 11, "ACL
Inheritance", Page 649. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)7 Pernicious Kingdoms
 Modifications
 Previous Entry Names