3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-366: Race Condition within a Thread (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/366.html 1/3
Common W eakness Enumeration
A community-developed list of SW & HW weaknesses that can become
vulnerabilities
Home Search
CWE-366: Race Condition within a Thread
Weakness ID: 366
Vulnerability Mapping: 
View customized information:
 Description
If two threads of execution use a resource simultaneously , there exists the possibility that resources may be used while invalid, in turn
making the state of execution undefined.
 Relationships
 Relevant to the view "Research Concepts" (CWE-1000)
Nature Type ID Name
ChildOf 362 Concurrent Execution using Shared Resource with Improper Synchronization ('Race
Condition')
 Relevant to the view "Software Development" (CWE-699)
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 557 Concurrency Issues
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Quality Measures (2020)" (CWE-1305)
 Relevant to the view "CISQ Data Protection Measures" (CWE-1340)
 Modes Of Introduction
Phase Note
Implementation
 Applicable Platforms
Languages
C (Undetermined Prevalence)
C++ (Undetermined Prevalence)
Java (Undetermined Prevalence)
C# (Undetermined Prevalence)
 Common Consequences
Scope Impact Likelihood
Integrity
OtherTechnical Impact: Alter Execution Logic; Unexpected State
The main problem is that -- if a lock is overcome -- data could be altered in a bad state.
 Likelihood Of Exploit
Medium
 Demonstrative Examples
Example 1
The following example demonstrates the weakness.About ▼ CWE List ▼ Mapping ▼ Top-N Lists ▼ Community ▼ News ▼
ALLOWED
Abstraction: Base
Conceptual OperationalMapping
FriendlyComplete Custom
(bad code) Example Language: C 
int foo = 0;
int storenum(int num) {
static int counter = 0;
counter++;
if (num > foo) foo = num;
return foo;
}
(bad code) Example Language: Java 3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-366: Race Condition within a Thread (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/366.html 2/3
 Observed Examples
Reference Description
CVE-2022-2621 Chain: two threads in a web browser use the same resource ( CWE-366 ), but one of those threads can
destroy the resource before the other has completed ( CWE-416 ).
 Potential Mitigations
Phase: Architecture and Design
Use locking functionality . This is the recommended solution. Implement some form of locking mechanism around code which
alters or reads persistent data in a multithreaded environment.
Phase: Architecture and Design
Create resource-locking validation checks. If no inherent locking mechanisms exist, use flags and signals to enforce your own
blocking scheme when resources are being used by other threads of execution.
 Detection Methods
Automated Static Analysis
Automated static analysis, commonly referred to as Static Application Security Testing (SAST), can find some instances of this
weakness by analyzing source code (or binary/compiled code) without having to execute it. Typically , this is done by building a
model of data flow and control flow , then searching for potentially-vulnerable patterns that connect "sources" (origins of input)
with "sinks" (destinations where the data interacts with external components, a lower layer such as the OS, etc.)
Effectiveness: High
 Affected Resources
System Process
 Memberships
Nature Type ID Name
MemberOf 748 CER T C Secure Coding Standard (2008) Appendix - POSIX (POS)
MemberOf 852 The CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java (2011) Chapter 9 - V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 882 CER T C++ Secure Coding Section 14 - Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 986 SFP Secondary Cluster: Missing Lock
MemberOf 1142 SEI CER T Oracle Secure Coding Standard for Java - Guidelines 08. V isibility and Atomicity
(VNA)
MemberOf 1169 SEI CER T C Coding Standard - Guidelines 14. Concurrency (CON)
MemberOf 1401 Comprehensive Categorization: Concurrency
 Vulnerability Mapping Notes
Usage: ALLOWED (this CWE ID could be used to map to real-world vulnerabilities)
Reason: Acceptable-Use
Rationale:
This CWE entry is at the Base level of abstraction, which is a preferred level of abstraction for mapping to the root causes of
vulnerabilities.
Comments:
Carefully read both the name and description to ensure that this mapping is an appropriate fit. Do not try to 'force' a mapping to a
lower-level Base/V ariant simply to comply with this preferred level of abstraction.
 Taxonomy Mappings
Mapped T axonomy Name Node ID Fit Mapped Node Name
public classRace {
static int foo = 0;
public static void main() {
new Threader().start();
foo = 1;
}
public static class Threader extends Thread {
public void run() {
System.out.println(foo);
}
}
}3/7/24, 2:57 PM CWE - CWE-366: Race Condition within a Thread (4.14)
https://cwe.mitre.org/data/deﬁnitions/366.html 3/3CLASP Race condition within a thread
CER T C Secure Coding CON32-C CWE More
AbstractPrevent data races when accessing bit-fields from multiple
threads
CER T C Secure Coding CON40-C CWE More
AbstractDo not refer to an atomic variable twice in an expression
CER T C Secure Coding CON43-C Exact Do not allow data races in multithreaded code
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA02-J Ensure that compound operations on shared variables are
atomic
The CER T Oracle Secure
Coding Standard for Java
(2011)VNA03-J Do not assume that a group of calls to independently atomic
methods is atomic
Software Fault Patterns SFP19 Missing Lock
 Related Attack Patterns
CAPEC-ID Attack Pattern Name
CAPEC-26 Leveraging Race Conditions
CAPEC-29 Leveraging Time-of-Check and Time-of-Use (T OCT OU) Race Conditions
 References
[REF-18] Secure Software, Inc.. "The CLASP Application Security Process". 2005.
.
[REF-44] Michael Howard, David LeBlanc and John V iega. "24 Deadly Sins of Software Security". "Sin 13: Race Conditions."
Page 205. McGraw-Hill. 2010.
[REF-62] Mark Dowd, John McDonald and Justin Schuh. "The Art of Software Security Assessment". Chapter 13, "Race
Conditions", Page 759. 1st Edition. Addison W esley . 2006.
 Content History
 Submissions
Submission Date Submitter Organization
2006-07-19
(CWE Draft 3, 2006-07-19)CLASP
 Modifications